---
title: Calendar
---

*Calendar entries must be sent to the editor no later than the 15th of
the month preceding publishing. Please send all calendar content to
<eastfordnews@gmail.com>. Please limit calendar submissions to less than
100 words.*

## September

### Wednesday, Sept. 3

Wednesday night ministries return to Eastford Baptist Church on
Wednesday, Sept. 3! For Grades 1-6, EBC Olympians will offer Bible
lessons, games, music and more from 6:30-8 p.m. in the Olympians Room
below the sanctuary. For Grades 7-12, Teen Club will offer fellowship,
snacks, Bible teaching and small groups from 6:30-8:15 p.m. in the
Family Activity Center upstairs classroom. For adults, Wednesday night
Prayer Meeting and Bible Study will offer a video series and discussion
time called "How Should We Then Live?" by Francis Schaffer. This group
will meet in the downstairs Family Activity Center classroom. Lastly at
6:30 p.m. in the library, Women's Ministry will begin a new study
entitled, "Forgiving What You Can't Forget," by Lysa TerKeurst. For more
information on these or any of our programs, visit
[the church website](http://www.eastfordbaptist.com), or e-mail
<eastfordbaptistoffice@gmail.com>.

### Thursday, Sept. 4

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

The Eastford Historical Society Annual Meeting and Air Line Trail Slide
Show presentation will be held Thursday, Sept. 4, at the Town Office
Building at 7 p.m. Phil Finch, Vice President of the Eastford Historical
Society, will present a fascinating slide show on the Air Line Trail!
Refreshments will be served!

### Tuesday, Sept. 9

On Tuesdays, Sept. 9, 16, 23, and 30, the Congregational Church of
Eastford will host a free half-hour Family Music Class at 10 a.m. for
children birth to 3 years with caregiver and at 10:30 a.m. for children
3+ (independent with caregivers joining for the last 5 minutes of
class). The new sessions run from Sept. 9 to Nov. 18 and offer
progressive skill development in singing, focused listening activities,
dancing, and playing instruments. [Register on the church website](https://cceastford.org/classes/).

### Wednesday, Sept. 10

Eastford Public Library will host "Maker's Night" from 6 to 7:30 p.m.
Board member Dan Belanger will be leading a four-part series where he
will instruct patrons on how to personalize items such as T-shirts,
mugs, tote bags and signs. This week will be an introductory class on
the Cricut and screen printing. If interested, find a full description
of what this workshop entails at the library's front desk.

### Thursday, Sept. 11

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, Sept. 13

On Saturday, Sept. 13, at 11 a.m. behind Eastford Elementary School, the
Connecticut Society of the American Revolution and the Town of Eastford
announce the dedication of a Liberty Tree, which was a giant Elm tree in
Boston that the rebels met under planning the American Revolution. When
the British found out, they cut the tree down and burned it. Every town
in the 13 colonies had either a liberty tree or a liberty pole. We hope
to have a big turnout for this event!

### Thursday, Sept. 18

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m. the Friends of the
Eastford Public Library will have their monthly meeting.  All are
welcome to attend. 

### Saturday, Sept. 20

Eastford Public Library hosts a "Welcoming Fall" children's craft at
10:30 a.m. Please register for this event. "BBC Book Club" will meet
at 1 p.m. to discuss "I Heard the Owl Call my Name" by Margaret
Craven. The book will be on display and available to check out.

### Wednesday, Sept. 24

Eastford Public Library hosts "Utilizing the Library's Cricut" from 6 to
7:30 p.m. This is the second week of our four-part series where we will
create vinyl stickers and explore the use of a heat press. The remaining
parts of this series will take place on Oct. 8 and 22, where we will
learn more about the process of screen printing and sublimation
printing. Want to learn how to create something unique? Please join us!

### Thursday, Sept. 25

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play.
