---
title: From the Congregational Church of Eastford
author: Mike Moran
---

Greetings Eastford --- from the Congregational Church of Eastford!

Summer in our patch of the world can be delightful, full of family,
friends, fire pits, fireflies, fun at the lake, porch swings, hiking,
fishing and plenty of "forbidden" food like Bucks and hot dogs. As we
find some space in the summer, we can hit "refresh" and grab some rest
before fall programs and the school year get going. It is always good to
get re-centered on what really matters in life. I hope you all were able
to do just that. But now --- as school gets started --- the pattern of
life shifts to getting back to it and perhaps to decide to try something
new.

Along these lines, I was recently reviewing some spiritual milestones in
recent years for our church. One goes back a decade --- a verse from the
Old Testament that tells God's people to make ready for growth (Isaiah
54:2 for you Bible types). Another was a sermon on our YouTube channel
from back in the COVID time. In it, I spoke of the vision we believe God
is giving us for our church.

Established in 1777, our church has served a bunch of generations. The
building we lost served our community for nearly 200 years. The pattern
of God's people since the beginning of time has been for one generation
to pass their relationship with God to another. Thousands of years of
this pattern are documented in the Bible, which we hold to be God's
truth. And that brings me to now, and to our vision.

My words back in 2021 acknowledged the presence of a bunch of kids in
our worship time, and I spoke of how the Lord has a future prepared for
us and for our community. Our vision is to serve and be involved in this
community we share with all of you. We will actively engage younger
generations, young adults, young families, children and youth as well as
more mature adults and seniors. Our vision is that years from now ---
25, 50, 100 years from now --- there will be a vibrant and profound
witness for the Good News of Jesus here in our community. To do this,
our church family today is thinking in terms that include "young,"
"new," "fresh," and "lasting."

Back in April 2023 our historic building was destroyed by fire --- and
as we have developed our plans to rebuild this vision has guided us.
Responding to the vision of growth, we were moved to buy new land, to
think in terms of both growth and flexibility for the future. Our vision
was validated as the Lord has doubled our size since the fire. And the
Lord has given us a substantial provision to build a new building. If
you drive by our new site (54 John Perry Rd.), you will see a lot going
on. We are excited and looking forward to moving into the new space next
summer.

In the meantime, we are already experiencing "young, new, fresh and
lasting" in the life of our church. We worship every Sunday at 10 a.m.
in the Eastford Elementary School gym. As we get into the school year,
we will be offering some things that may interest you such as a
parenting course called "Raising Highly Capable Kids." All sorts of
other activities are going on (check out [cceastford.org](https://cceastford.org/)). So, maybe you
are looking for something new and fresh. If so --- come check us out!
Blessings!
