---
title: Did You Know?
author: Eastford Historical Society
---

Did you know that the first library in Eastford was established in 1887?
In May of that year Frederick Sumner learned that a collection of 50
books, known as a Circulation Library, could be purchased for \$50. He
raised this amount through subscription --- each person who gave him a
dollar would become a member of the Eastford Circulating Library
Association. Bylaws were drawn up and officers elected --- Stephen O.
Bowen (President); Charles O. Warren (Vice President); and Mrs. Timothy
J. Walker (Librarian).

Over the years, friends and former residents gifted books to the
library, and by 1896, it housed 340 volumes. That same year, Judge
Jarius Carpenter, of Madison, Wisc., contacted the town with an offer.
He and the brothers and sisters of Alfred P. Carpenter would give \$500
as a memorial fund if the town would establish a town library in his
honor.

Alfred was born in Eastford in on Oct. 29, 1835. He moved from Eastford
to St. Charles, Minn., with his family in 1852. He worked the family
farm and taught school in Madison, Wisc. He mustered as Private, Company
K, First Minnesota Infantry in 1861 at the age of 25. After being
wounded in action at Antietam in September of 1862, he was promoted to
Sergeant. He was wounded twice in action at Gettysburg, Penn., in July
1863. Once recovered he was commissioned 2nd Lieutenant, 2nd US Colored
Infantry in September 1862. Stationed at Key West, Fla., he died of
yellow fever there on Oct. 18, 1864.

It was voted to accept the Carpenters' offer. On Dec. 3, 1896, the
Library Association gifted their library to the town. The first town
library was kept by Jane Walker in the spacious hall of her home on Pork
Hill (current address is 269 Old Colony Rd.). It moved several times
before finding its final home in today's Ivy Glenn Memorial building,
first in its basement and finally taking over the entire building.
