---
title: "From the Eastford Independent Fire Company #1, Inc."
author: Jeannine Spink
---

Thank you to the residents of Eastford for your continued support of our
proposed budget that was passed on June 4. This budget will allow the
Eastford Independent Fire Co. to continue our training and maintenance
of our fire and rescue apparatus.

Ten "911" calls were responded to during the month of June. Drills
included pumping techniques on all trucks, boat operations, flow testing
and allergic reactions/interventions review. Due to the generosity of
Benway & Son Auto Body Shop in Pomfret, the members, in full gear,
practiced extrication techniques, using extrication tools for the safe
and quick rescue of a person who may be trapped in a vehicle. See the
photo included with this article.

While Santa's elves were busy at the North Pole preparing for Christmas,
Santa himself was escorted riding on an Engine Tanker through the
Charlie Brown Campground to the delight of the children and adults.

On a more solemn note, members, along with ET171, R171 and S171,
participated in the annual "Silas Run" in memory of member EMS
Lieutenant Silas Bunnell, who passed away in April 2018. Silas joined
the EIFC as a Junior Member in 2013. He took pride in his work, offering
his computer expertise and only a phone call away to support his peers
and fellow officers. He became proficient as a pump operator on Engine
Tanker 171 (a picture of which is included with this article) and earned
the rank of CAR 971 in June of 2017. There were approximately 300 people
in attendance at the J.N. Webster Scout Reservation in Ashford for a
"Celebration of Life" honoring Silas. Run fees and donations were
contributed to a fund in his name to help subsidize scholarships for
potential Scout campers. There was a true sense of fellowship and
support from friends, family, and local fire departments that was felt
by all. RIP -- CAR 971.

*- Submitted by Jeannine Spink, Veteran Member*
