---
title: PELL wraps up successful spring Little League season
author: Jill Mangus
---

POMFRET/EASTFORD --- The Spring 2025 Pomfret Eastford Little League
(PELL) season was a huge success. From chilly practices in early April,
to rainy, wet games --- every single player showed up with enthusiasm to
learn and participate. We started our season in March, offering winter
workouts and evaluations at the Pomfret School Field House, courtesy of
our sponsor, Pomfret School.

Registration for the spring league had record numbers, with 141 kids
registering for tee ball, baseball, and softball. This represents a more
than 45-percent increase in registrations year over year. Softball more
than doubled the number of registrations last year, which allowed us to
create two minors teams and two coach-pitch teams. Coach-pitch baseball
and tee ball also saw big increases in registration. In total for the
league, we were able to create 15 teams.

We had an exciting all-star season, with PELL collaborating with
neighboring towns Thompson and Putnam to create a Majors All-Star
Baseball team, a AAA Minors All-Star Baseball team, and a Minors
Softball team.

This year's Mid-Season Classic was a huge success. We had baseball and
softball games being played morning to night, and featured
face-painting, T-shirt giveaways, raffles, and food all day long
courtesy of our amazing partners --- Pizza 101, Bakers Dozen, We-li-kit
Ice Cream, and Yummy Wagon Food Truck. We also had amazing PELL
representation from players and parents that walked in this year's
Memorial Day parades in Pomfret and Eastford.

We received so much support in 2025 from local volunteers that signed-up
to help coach, work the concession stand, and help with field
maintenance. We secured 25 new and returning sponsors, which aided the
league in being able to purchase much-needed new equipment for our
players. It really takes a village to run Pomfret Eastford Little
League, and it couldn't be done without the dedication from our board,
volunteers, and the support of local small businesses.

Looking ahead, registration is currently open for our Fall Ball 2025
season. The PELL board is working closely with the Town of Eastford and
their field maintenance committee on future improvements to Bowen
Memorial Field. We're also in the beginning stages of planning for our
haunted house fundraiser, Nick's Nightmare, which takes place in October
at Pomfret Little League Fields. This event is executed in collaboration
with our amazing partners, New England Laborers Training Academy, and
all proceeds benefit Pomfret Eastford Little League.


*Courtesy photos*

![a child catches a baseball](/assets/images/34-2-pell-1.jpg)
The Navy Knockouts 8-10 Softball team had a season full of fun and
growth, going 5-8 in the regular season and advancing to the second
round of the playoffs before falling to Putnam.

![children in blue baseball uniforms in a trailer](/assets/images/34-2-pell-2.jpg)

![children in baseball uniforms with a sign that says "Pomfret Eastford Little League"](/assets/images/34-2-pell-3.jpg)
Pomfret Eastford Little League players had a presence at the Eastford
Memorial Day parade and ceremony.