---
title: From the Superintendent
author: Donna Leake
---

Welcome to the 2025-2026 school year! I'd like to take this opportunity
to highlight some changes to our wonderful learning community.

- New faces in some new places: We are welcoming Mrs. Boccacio, our
former building substitute, as our first-year Grade 1 teacher. Mrs.
Rhynhart is moving from Grade 1 to Grade 2. Mrs. Diane Barlow, who
served our students well as our Interventionist for many years opted to
retire --- so we are pleased to have Mrs. Lincoln, our former Grade 2
teacher, take on the responsibilities of this very important position.
Mrs. Lincoln will facilitate our efforts to enhance the multi-tiered
system of supports we have in place at EES. This system is a critical
component of our ability to meet the needs of all students. This year,
information from this system will be merged into the CT-SEDS data system
that also houses all our student IEPs and 504 plans. This will allow our
teachers and families access to monitor student progress.

- Before and After School Program: The Hale YMCA out of Putnam will be
providing Before and After School programming for students enrolled in
this program. The EES administrative team has been working closely with
the YMCA team to make the transition as smooth as possible. If you have
questions about this program, please contact the YMCA directly. The best
contact is Veronica Larocque. She can be reached via e-mail at
<veronica.larocque@ghymca.org>, or by phone at (860) 315-9622, ext. 4105.
Please know that the administrative team at EES will continue to monitor
the implementation of this program as we move forward with this new
partnership.

- The Bulldog Way: Yes, our friendly and sometimes playful bulldog will
be appearing in more places this year. We are proud of the EES learning
community. We believe we offer high-quality programming in a warm and
caring environment for all our preschool to Grade 8 students. Over the
past few years, we developed "The Portrait of an Eastford Learner" that
is posted throughout the building. This statement of beliefs informs the
work we do with our students. We also have a Strategic Plan that we
update yearly to ensure we are making progress in our goals. These goals
are based on the academic progress of our students, the climate data we
receive from our staff and family surveys, and changes in state
requirements and legislative demands. A critical component of this plan
is the Bulldog Way, a list of commitments we expect from all staff to
provide quality programming for our students and positive communication
among staff, students, families and community members. Copies of the EES
Strategic Plan as well as out portrait of the Eastford Learner are
posted on [www.eastfordct.org](https://www.eastfordct.org/).

In closing, I extend the first "thank you" of the 2025-26 school year to
all our families and community members that provide us with the
resources needed to provide high-quality education for all students.
Although we often focus on the work done at EES, your support allows our
students to continue their Grade 9-12 education at Woodstock Academy,
Ellis Tech, Killingly Agricultural Center, Edwin O. Smith High School,
and Quinebaug Middle College. The future belongs to those who believe in
the beauty of their dreams (Eleanor Roosevelt). Thanks to the unwavering
committed spirit of partnership that exists within the Eastford
community, we can keep the dreams of all our students alive.

As always, you are invited to contact me at <dleake@eastfordct.org> if you
have questions or concerns and/or would like to schedule an appointment.
Of course, please feel welcome to stop by to say hello before our
regularly scheduled Board of Education meetings. Our next meeting is
Sept. 11 at 6 p.m. in the EES library.
