---
title: From the First Selectman
author: Deb Richards
---

- Trout Dam Project Update: Due to unusually wet conditions this past
spring, work on the Trout Dam was delayed. According to the dam engineer
and contractor, site conditions made it unsafe and impractical to
proceed. As a result, an extension was requested and granted by CT DEEP.
The new deadline for project completion is Nov. 27.

- Liberty Tree Dedication -- Sept. 13: The Town of Eastford is proud to
host a Liberty Tree Dedication Ceremony on Saturday, Sept. 13, in honor
of the 250th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of
Independence. This special event is being organized in partnership with
Mark Sheldon, Connecticut State President of the Sons of the American
Revolution, and Eastford Elementary School. The ceremony will feature a
fully uniformed Revolutionary War color guard and the dedication of a
Liberty Tree and engraved granite plaque, to be installed behind the
school. For more information and event updates, [please visit the town's
website](https://www.eastfordct.gov/) or [follow us on Facebook: Town of
Eastford, CT](https://www.facebook.com/townofeastfordct).

- Veterans Day Ceremony -- Nov. 8: This year, the Town of Mansfield will
host the Annual Veterans Day Ceremony for the towns of Eastford, Union,
Ashford, Willington, and Mansfield. The event will take place on
Saturday, Nov. 8, at the E.O. Smith Auditorium in Mansfield. The
ceremony will honor our Vietnam Veterans. If you are, or know of, a
Vietnam Veteran, please share their name, branch of service, and years
served by contacting the Selectmen's Office at (860) 974-0133, ext. 3.

- Regional Transportation Safety Update -- NECCOG: NECCOG has received
federal funding through the U.S. Department of Transportation's Safe
Streets and Roads for All (SS4A) program to update its Regional
Transportation Safety Action Plan for northeastern Connecticut. This
initiative aims to reduce and ultimately eliminate serious-injury and
fatal crashes for all users of our roadways. [Residents are encouraged to
provide input on local traffic safety concerns through a public survey
available on the NECCOG website. You can also access detailed data on
roadway accidents and fatalities in each town](https://neccog.org).
