---
title: Calendar
---

*Calendar entries must be sent to the editor no later than the 15th of
the month preceding publishing. Please send all calendar content to
<eastfordnews@gmail.com>. Please limit calendar submissions to less than
100 words.*

## June

### Tuesday, June 3

Eastford Public Library will host a Homeschool Science Fair for families
who are registered. Set-up is at 10:30 a.m. The fair will be open to the
public from 11 a.m. to noon. Please support our homeschooling families
by dropping in to check out their displays!

### Thursday, June 5

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, June 7

Eastford Public Library will host "Planting Our Reading Garden," at
10:30 a.m. This will include planting vegetables and herbs in our raised
beds here at the library! In addition, we will also be planting
Spaghetti Garden Grow Bags to take home. Please register for this event.

### Wednesday, June 11

Eastford Public Library will host "Maker's Night" from 6 to 7:30 p.m. We
will be painting flowerpots as part of our Garden Series. Please note
this program takes place on the second Wednesday of every month.

### Thursday, June 12

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Thursday, June 19

Eastford Public Library is CLOSED for the holiday.

### Friday, June 20

Eastford Public Library will host "Yoga in the Park with Sarah Boyd" to
kick off our Summer Reading Program. Please join us at 6 p.m. with a mat
or towel in the park (next to the library) as we welcome in the Summer
Solstice. We will have sign-ups for our Children and Adult Summer
Reading Programs as well as a sun craft and snack. The library is also
excited to unveil our Story Walk! In the event of rain, we will move
this event indoors.

### Saturday, June 21

Eastford Public Library will continue to have sign-ups for our Children
and Adult Summer Reading Program along with a sun craft. Join us in our
Race to Read books all summer long while also enjoying all things
gardening.

### Tuesday, June 24

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. "Grim Readers Book Club"
meets at 6 p.m. The featured author is Lisa Gardner and her advanced
copy of "Kiss Her Goodbye," due to be released in August 2025. This will
be her fourth book in the "Frankie Elkin" series. The library will also
have copies of "Before She Disappeared," "One Step Too Far," and "Still
See You Everywhere" on display and available for check out. Come in and
join this thrilling and fun group that meets every other month on the
fourth Tuesday.

### Wednesday, June 25

Eastford Public Library will host "Making Sundials" at 3 p.m. This will
be a STEAM project. Please register for this event.

### Thursday, June 26

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m., the Friends of the
Eastford Public Library will have their monthly meeting. All are welcome
to attend. 

### Saturday, June 28

Eastford Public Library will host a "Magic Show with Ed Popielrczyk" at
10:30 a.m. Please register for this event.

## July

### Wednesday, July 2

Eastford Public Library will host "Making Fairy Gardens" at 3 p.m.
Please register for this event.

### Saturday, July 5

Eastford Public Library will host a "Butterfly Craft" at 10:30 a.m. as
we begin our Butterflies in the Garden week. Please register.

### Wednesday, July 9

Eastford Public Library will host "Raising Butterflies from
Caterpillars" at 3 p.m. During this activity each family will have the
opportunity to create their very own butterfly sanctuary. Please note
this involves taking home live caterpillars to raise and involves a time
commitment. Please register. Maker's Night that evening will feature
Part 1 of Basket Making with Claire Williams from 6-8 p.m. Space is
limited to the first six participants. Part 2 will be the following
week.

### Thursday, July 10

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Saturday, July 12

Fun for the whole family! The Congregational Church of Eastford will
host its annual Frog Jump and Band Concert at Crystal Pond Park from 5-8
### p.m. on Saturday, July 12. The event will feature a frog-jumping contest
--- longest jumper wins. You are encouraged to bring your own frogs, but
we will have some loaners on hand too. There will be swimming in the
lake, a free cookout for all, premium ice cream, a bounce house and
other fun. We will be treated to a concert by the East Woodstock Cornet
Band. The entire event is free, our gift to you.

Eastford Public Library will host "Art in the Garden" at 10:30 a.m.
Please join us. Refreshments will be served.

### Wednesday, July 16

Eastford Public Library will host "Garden Stepping Stones" at 3 p.m.
This activity will involve making and decorating concrete stepping
stones! Please register for this event. In the evening, we will host
Part 2 of Basket Making with Claire Williams from 6-8 p.m. for those
previously registered.

### Thursday, July 17

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Saturday, July 19

Eastford Public Library will host "The Humble Bee Honey Company" at
10:30 a.m. This educational children's program will take us inside the
hive as presenter Catherine Wolko tells us all about the biology of the
honey bee. Please register for this event.

### Monday, July 21

The Congregational Church of Eastford, in partnership with Living Proof
Church of Ashford, will hold its annual Sports Camp on the grounds of
Eastford Elementary School, Monday to Friday, July 21-25, from 8:30 a.m.
to 12:15 p.m. The camp is for children ages 4-12 and offers flag
football, soccer, basketball, cheerleading (girls only) for kids ages
6-12 and skills development for 4- to 5-year-olds. Sports instruction is
led by college age athletes. The day also includes a Bible lesson and
snack. There is a fee of $60 per camper. [For more information and to
register, visit the church website](https://cceastford.org/sports-camp/).

### Wednesday, July 23

Eastford Public Library will host "Making Bee Baths" at 3 p.m. This will
be a STEAM project. Please register for this event.

### Thursday, July 24

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, July 26

Eastford Public Library will host a "Farm to Table Family Potluck" from
6-8 p.m. Bring a dish featuring fresh produce from your garden or
locally produced for all to share. Please register for this event as we
celebrate garden abundance!

### Monday, July 28

It's Christmas in July! Join us at Eastford Baptist Church Monday, July
28 through Friday, Aug. 1 (from 5:45-8:15 p.m.) for an all-new, EBC
original Vacation Bible School event called "Christmas Chronicles:
Celebrating the Birth of the Savior"! Throughout the week, we will be
exploring the miracle of the birth of Jesus Christ! Why did God send
Jesus? What was His mission? What's the big deal about it? Learn the
answers, and so much more at Christmas Chronicles VBS! We will have
games, snacks, crafts, contests, giveaways and so much more! We will
also be hosting a Penny War to benefit a great cause! So, get in the
Christmas spirit and join us in celebrating the birth of our Savior!
Please note: All children signing up must be going into at least Pre-K
(at least 3 years of age), and must be potty trained. If the child is
not potty trained, an adult must remain with the child throughout the
week. EBC volunteers are not permitted to change diapers. [For more
information, or to signup (for free!) visit the church website](https://eastfordbaptist.churchcenter.com/registrations/events/2875213).

### Wednesday, July 30

Eastford Public Library will host "Farm to Table" at 3 p.m. We will be
making refrigerator pickles from our library grown cucumbers! Please
register for this event.

### Thursday, July 31

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. REMINDER: The finale of our
Summer Reading Program is on Saturday, Aug. 2 at 10:30 a.m.
