---
title: A Word from the Congregational Church
author: Mike Moran
---

Greetings Eastford!

Happy start of summer! As you may know, we at the Congregational Church
of Eastford lost our building to a fire back in April 2023. We are
rebuilding on a new site on John Perry Road, and are just about to break
ground. It looks to be a bit more than a year to go before occupancy ---
a three-year process. I am a "git 'er done" kind of guy, so the process
has felt interminable to me. That said, our time without a building has
been one of great blessings. Our church family has grown substantially,
and we are thriving in every way.

We are so very grateful to all of you --- our Eastford community --- for
your kindness and generosity. We have been able to hold our Sunday
worship service in the Eastford School gym, some of our meetings in the
Ivy Glenn, and our brothers and sisters at Eastford Baptist have made
their building available for group studies and especially for our
children and youth groups. Thank you all! What a wonderful place we are
privileged to call "home."

As we step into summer, we look forward to two events that may interest
you.

1. Our annual Frog Jump and Band Concert will be held at Crystal Pond
Park from 5-8 p.m. on Saturday, July 12. This event has been running for
perhaps a century --- and it is great fun for the whole family. We will
have a frog-jumping contest --- longest jumper wins. The best bet is for
you to catch and bring your own. For the health of the amphibians,
please make sure you keep your hands wet and your frogs, too. We will
have some loaners for city folk. There will be swimming in the lake, a
free cookout for all, premium ice cream, a bounce house and other fun.
We will be treated to a concert by the East Woodstock Cornet Band. The
entire event is free, our gift to you. Why? Jesus loves you --- and so
do we!

2. Our annual Sports Camp will be held on the grounds of the Eastford
School, Monday to Friday, July 21-25, from 8:30 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. The
camp is for children ages 4-12 and offers flag football, soccer,
basketball, cheerleading (girls only) for kids ages 6-12 and skills
development for 4- to 5-year-olds. Sports instruction is led by college
age athletes. The day also includes a Bible lesson and snack. There is a
fee of $60 per camper. If you need a "camper-ship," just ask. For more
information and to register, visit [the church website](https://cceastford.org/sports-camp/).

A final note: In my early life, I pursued all the things that the world
offers that promise to fulfill --- family, friends, education, career,
good food, hobbies, sports and possessions. All these can bring portions
of happiness and satisfaction, but they never truly fulfill us. By the
time I was in my late 30's I had checked the blocks, and I learned this
truth --- the world can never satisfy. But then I was introduced to
Jesus, and everything changed. It was like that scene in "The Wizard of
Oz" when the house has landed on the Wicked Witch of the East and
Dorothy opens the door. The movie flips from black and white to
Technicolor and she says, "Toto, I don't think we are in Kansas
anymore." I had a new life and "Wow!" Life in Jesus is, in His words,
"abundant" and "eternal." There is peace and there is joy, and there is
genuine love to be had.

At the Congregational Church of Eastford, we are all about Jesus and all
about people. We want you to be richly blessed. It our deepest desire
that we might share the abundant and eternal life that is the free gift
of our great God in Heaven in Christ Jesus.

Want to know more? Just ask. Or join us at the Eastford School on any
Sunday at 10 a.m. (or Eastford Baptist at 10:30 a.m.). No pressure. Just
come and see.
