---
title: Eastford Baptist Update
author: Timothy Howard Jr.
---

There is something special about Sunday mornings in a small town. The
roads are calm, the pace is slower, and neighbors begin to gather for
worship across the community.

But let's be honest ... it is easy to drift spiritually. Life picks up
speed, responsibilities pile on, weekends fill up, and so, for many,
church gradually slips out of the routine. Maybe you still believe,
maybe you still pray, maybe you still think about God from time to time,
but it has been a while since you have walked through the doors of a
local church.

If that describes you, maybe it is time to reconnect with God and,
indeed, with the church. Church is where we are reminded of what truly
matters. It is a place to refocus our hearts, find encouragement, hear
the truth of God's Word, and be surrounded by people who care. We don't
gather because we have it all together, but because we know we need
grace, truth, and direction to navigate life. You don't need to have
your life all together. You don't need to dress a certain way or know
all the right words. You just need a willing heart and maybe a little
courage to take that first step.

The Bible says in Isaiah 55:6, "Seek the Lord while He may be found;
call upon Him while He is near." This verse reminds us that God is not
far off, but very near. It is a reminder that now is the time to turn
toward Him, not someday or when life settles down, but today. Maybe it
has been a long time since you have been to church. Maybe you have been
meaning to come back, but one week turned into another, and now it just
feels like it has been too long. Let me tell you, it hasn't. You are not
too far gone, and it is not too late. The Lord is near, and the doors of
the church are open --- you just have to walk through them.

At Eastford Baptist Church, we would love to welcome you back. We offer
Sunday School for children of all ages and an Adult Bible Class at 9:15
a.m. Then, at 10:30 a.m., we gather for our worship service, where we
sing, pray, and open the Bible to hear what God has to say.

Also, if you have children or teens, we would love to invite them to our
Wednesday night youth ministries at 6:30 p.m., our "Olympians" kid's
club is for grades 1-6, and runs until June 4, and will start up again
on Sept. 3. Our Teen Club is for grades 7-12, and runs until June 11,
also starting up again on Sept. 3. Also, mark your calendars for our
all-original, Christmas-themed Vacation Bible School, titled "Christmas
Chronicles," for kids in grades Pre-K-6, happening July 28 through Aug.
1 from 6-8:15 p.m. For more summer events and updates, be sure to check
out our website and follow us on social media!

So, whether you are new to church, or it has simply been a while, we
would love to see you this Sunday. No pressure, no expectations, just an
open invitation to reconnect, be encouraged, and experience the grace
and peace that only God can give.
