---
title: In the Garden
author: Susan Burns
---

You are what you eat!

It is time to start planning what we want to grow and to eat this summer
and fall. Nothing beats the taste of home-grown produce. Growing our own
food helps us gain control of what and how we eat. When we determine
what to grow, we decide if we will use pesticides, insecticides,
fertilizer, compost, manure, or mulch. We know that exposure to
chemicals causes skin and respiratory issues, nervous system and hormone
problems, and can be carcinogenic.

There are significant health benefits when you grow your own food picked
at its peak ripeness and eaten quickly. Home-grown produce, packaging
free, in a garden that's alive with wildlife and biodiversity provides a
household with a healthier diet and lifestyle. Not only will we improve
our own good health, but at the same time, we rescue the health of our
planet.

Now, you might be thinking: "I have no land for growing my own food."
Fortunately, you can grow fruits, vegetables and herbs in containers on
your steps, on your porch, or even along your driveway. I first started
growing potatoes in containers one year when I dug my potatoes out of my
kitchen garden only to find that critters had taken a bite out of each
of the biggest potatoes. What a disappointment.

For apartment dwellers or anyone short on space, containers can't be
beat. Container growing has really taken off recently. Let's talk about
important considerations if you grow your food in containers.

First, choose the right soil. All soil isn't equal. Potting soil (not
garden soil or just plain old dirt) is the key to container gardening
success. Potting soil is a blend of materials like sphagnum moss, bark,
perlite, vermiculite, compost or coir that intended for growing plants
in containers. Other soils can carry fungus and other plant pathogens
that can infect your plants. Potting mix is sterile, so it's fungus-free
and safer. The organic material (compost or moss) feeds the plants and
the perlite and vermiculite keep the mix loose and well-drained so it
doesn't compact around plant roots or hold too much water which keeps
roots from breathing, and can kill plants.

Compact, aesthetically pleasing edible plants are more popular than
ever. You can get bonsai basil, or basil 'Everleaf lemon.' You can buy
compact tomato plants like Wonderstar Red or Unicorn Pink. Blueberries
do very well in containers.

Now that you have chosen which plants you want to grow, the next step is
choosing the right container for your plants. Pots can be made out of
wood, plastic, clay, stone, concrete --- whichever you prefer. Each type
holds moisture differently. Don't forget to water frequently.
