---
title: From the First Selectman
author: Deb Richards
---

This budget season was extremely hard. This was due to a number of
factors, including:

- The Grand list in Eastford is down a total of 2.47 percent, or
-$5,783,878.

- Changes in motor vehicle valuation methodology resulted in lower
values which can only be made up by a tax increase. The State is
proposing via SB 1554, to eliminate motor vehicle taxes altogether which
will then be offset by increases in your real estate and personal
property taxes.

- Special Education cost is rising without increased funding from the
State.

- Unfunded mandates for early voting, which along with other election
costs, is reflected in an elections budget increase of 66.7 percent.
This unfunded mandate can only be funded by increasing taxes.

- The State has passed legislation regarding veteran tax abatements,
which translates to over $1,513,680 in Eastford property that cannot be
taxed. The State is proposing greater tax abatements for veterans for
next year. That loss in revenue can only be made up by increasing taxes.

Included in this outlook are increases for services, supplies,
insurance, and salaries that are still below the average. The State cut
costs to our PILOT, Education Cost Sharing, and the LoCIP program.

The State does not vote on their budget until June. The federal
government votes on their budget in July -- we are estimating some
expected revenue, but this is a very rocky road we are traveling.

The Board of Selectmen worked very hard to try and balance the needs of
the town, the needs of our staff, and the needs of our residents. The
town can only raise funds through taxes -- we have no other options.
Taxes in our town need to go towards goods, services, and salaries of
town employees.

This has been a challenging budget season for many municipalities across
Connecticut. Despite these challenges, Eastford remains a beautiful,
vibrant small town with kind, caring residents who work together for the
betterment of our community.
