---
title: Calendar
---

*Calendar entries must be sent to the editor no later than the 15th of
the month preceding publishing. Please send all calendar content to
<eastfordnews@gmail.com>. Please limit calendar submissions to less than
100 words.*

## October

### Thursday, Oct. 2

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Tuesday, Oct. 7

Eastford Public Library hosts "Homeschool Hour" at 10:30 a.m. After a
summer hiatus our popular homeschooling group will resume on the first
Tuesday of every month. Join us as we discuss optical illusions! Please
register as there is limited space available.

### Wednesday, Oct. 8

Eastford Public Library hosts "Maker's Night" from 6 to 7:30 p.m. This
is the third session in our four-part series where Dan Belanger will
demonstrate using a Cricut to set up a screen-printing frame. Want to
learn how to create something unique? Please join us!

### Thursday, Oct. 9

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Thursday, Oct. 16

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m. the Friends of the
Eastford Public Library will have their monthly meeting.  All are
welcome to attend.

### Saturday, Oct. 18

The Last Green Valley (TLGV) hosts their annual Walktober events
throughout the month of October! In Eastford, Emeritus State
Archaeologist Nick Bellantoni will lead a hike through the Lyon family 
homestead's farm and mill stone ruins on Oct. 18. Amasa Lyon operated a
sawmill on Beaverdam Brook and his son, Nathaniel Lyon, was the first
Union officer killed during the Civil War. A truly historic hike through
the lens of stone ruins. Rain or shine! Registration required. Sponsored
by [Connecticut State Museum of Natural History](https://csmnh.uconn.edu/).
Natchaug State Forest, Eastford. Meeting location and parking
information will be sent to registered participants three days before
walk. [Register online here](https://s.uconn.edu/ruinsct2025).

Eastford Public Library hosts a "Halloween Picture Frame" children's
craft at 10:30 a.m. Please register for this event.

### Tuesday, Oct. 21

Eastford Public Library hosts "Grim Reader's Book Club" at 6 p.m. We
will be discussing "Agony Hill" by Sarah Stewart Taylor and "An Appetite 
for Murder" by Lucy Burdette as we prepare for our Author Talk on Oct. 25. 
Both books are on display and available to check out.

### Wednesday, Oct. 22

Eastford Public Library hosts the final session in our four-part series
on personalizing items from 6 to 7:30 p.m. Tonight Dan Belanger will be
demonstrating the process of sublimation. Please join us!

### Thursday, Oct. 23

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. Join us at 5 p.m. for our
annual fundraiser, "Adopt A Book". If you are unable to attend, the
remainder of the books will continue to be on display and available to
purchase for donation to the library.

### Saturday, Oct. 25

Eastford Public Library hosts a "Murder Mystery Mania Author Event" at 1
p.m. Sarah Stewart Taylor, Lucy Burdette, Sarah Strohmeyer and return
author Tessa Wegert will be in cozy conversation with Jody Blanchette.
Light refreshments will be served. Registration for this event is
required.

### Thursday, Oct. 30

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Friday, Oct. 31

Happy Halloween! Eastford Public Library will be hosting a "Haunted
Library" for families from 5:30-7:30 p.m. Please stop in.
