---
title: A Word from the Congregational Church of Eastford
author: Mike Moran
---

A guiding light for our church family is to bless our terrific
community. We do this as servants of Jesus, knowing that He loves you
all immensely and wants you to flourish.

One area of community life we really care about is blessing young
families. To that end, we will be offering a parenting course in
partnership with the Eastford School entitled "Raising Highly Capable
Kids." This is a proven, 13-week program created to help build stronger
families by giving parents and caregivers the confidence, tools, and
skills they need to raise healthy, caring, and responsible children. The
basic idea is that when we know what our kids need to grow and mature,
we are much better at parenting. The course is derived from The Search
Institute's four decades of study of more than 4 million kids. The study
developed a list of the building blocks every child needs to grow and
mature. The more of these assets that children possess, the more healthy
behaviors and positive results they will have in life. In this class
parents will learn what these assets are and develop their own
strategies for how best to put them to work in the lives of their kids.

Here is how it will work. The program will run Tuesdays beginning Oct.
14 through Dec. 2, and after a holiday break Jan. 27 through Feb. 24. We
will meet in the Family Activity Center at Eastford Baptist Church as
our new building is under construction. We will gather at 5:30 p.m. for
a meal for you and your children. Then, we will provide childcare so
that the adults can meet from 6-7:30 p.m. The format facilitated
presentation and discussion led by certified instructors. There is no
religious content. There is no charge for the program. [Please register
at the church website](https://cceastford.org/events/).

Here are some testimonials about the course:

"Taking this weekly course has been one of the best decisions I've made
this year. I remember coming to the meeting feeling defeated yet leaving
feeling brand new." -Mom

"The classes helped me learn how to treat others, how to treat my wife
and children better. And now I'm another person, a good person. My life
has changed completely. It's an excellent program." -Father

"The course was valuable in two ways: first, as a very useful resource
in understanding what child developmental assets are and why they are
important; and secondly, group members naturally became a good support
for one another and offered many positive suggestions! Thanks for
bringing it!" -Participant
