---
title: The Pastor's Pen
author: Timothy Howard Jr.
---

When we look around at our world today, it's easy to see the darkness.
News headlines are filled with division, hatred, and violence. Many
people feel isolated, overlooked, and unloved. Compassion seems to be in
short supply. Yet in the midst of this brokenness, God gives us a clear
answer --- love.

The Bible tells us, "God is love" (1 John 4:8), and it calls us to
reflect His love in our daily lives. Jesus declared, "You are the light
of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden" (Matthew 5:14). In
other words, in a world that often feels dark, the love of Christ
shining through His people is meant to push back the shadows.

This is not a love that's shallow or sentimental. It's the kind of love
described in 1 Corinthians 13 as "patient, kind, not self-seeking." It's
the kind of love Jesus showed when He laid down His life for us (Romans
5:8), and it's the kind of love our community desperately needs today.
Neighbors caring for neighbors, families forgiving each other, and
friends standing together in hard times.

At Eastford Baptist Church, we want to be a place where that kind of
love grows and spreads. We know we're not perfect, but we believe God's
love changes hearts, restores relationships, and brings hope even in the
darkest days. That's why we gather, not just to worship, but to
encourage one another and to be equipped to share God's love with the
world around us.

We would love for you to join us for our Sunday School and Adult Bible
class at 9:15 a.m., for our worship at 10:30 a.m., or for our Wednesday
activities at 6:30 p.m. (Olympians kids club, Teen Club, Prayer Meeting,
and Women's Bible Study). Come as you are. Whether you are weary,
searching, or simply curious, you will find a warm welcome and the love
of Christ shared openly. Together, we can shine His light and spread His
love because in a world of darkness, love is exactly what we need most.
