---
title: News from the Conservation and Historic Preservation Commission
---

The Eastford Conservation and Historic Preservation Commission (ECHPC)
is a small but energetic group of people in town dedicated to conserving
our natural resources and promoting and preserving the historic
character of Eastford and surrounding communities.

Some examples of our activities:

This spring, we cleared the Boston Turnpike Trail and made repairs to
the footbridge off Crams Road. More recently, we cleared the George
Askew Trail behind Eastford Elementary School, which included trail
maintenance, invasive plant control and shoring up of the foot bridge
near the mill pond. The bridge is in need of replacing and we will be
working towards that in the upcoming year.

Also this year, working with the town, we prepared a management plan for
the capped landfill at the Transfer Station, which includes a mowing
schedule and invasive plant control to promote native plants and enhance
wildlife habitat. Similarly, the pollinator garden near the Town Office
Building is being maintained and we will work with teachers and students
at EES to promote pollinators and native plants.

Another significant achievement this year was mapping the historic stone
walls in town. Working with Ethan Berriault, a local cartographer and
"GIS whiz," we were able to complete a pilot study started by UConn to
map historic stone walls in Connecticut. Did you know there are over 240
miles of stone walls in Eastford? This project is a continuation of work
started by author and UConn Professor Robert Thorson, who spoke last
year at EES. The completed maps will be printed and added to the GIS
land use coverage found at the Town Office Building and Eastford Public
Library.

The Commission also works to preserve open space in town. To that end,
and working with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, we were able to
preserve in perpetuity some beautiful farmland at the north end of town.

Finally, several members have gotten involved in the Natchaug Healthy
Watershed Protection Plan. This 2-year project is funded through an US
EPA Clean Water Act Sec. 319 NPS grant in partnership with the CT DEEP
and is being administered through the Eastern CT Conservation District
(ECCD). It includes the eight towns that are included in the Natchaug
River Watershed. There are a number of work groups that will report to
an Advisory Group and will work to promote and educate the public on
best management practices for activities that happen in the watershed
(which is about everything). Work group topics include everything from
sound forest management practices, to pollinator and rain gardens, to
healthy farming practices, to municipal and residential stormwater and
wastewater treatment.

To find out more, please contact the ECCD District Conservationist Maura
Robie at <maura.robie@comcast.net>. We encourage you to come to one of our
monthly meetings, held the first Tuesday of every month at 7 p.m. in the
basement of the Town Office Building (unless otherwise posted).

![two people clearing a trail through brush in a forest](/assets/images/34-3-trail-work-1.jpg)

![someone working on a bridge made of logs](/assets/images/34-3-trail-work-2.jpg)

![two people clearing a trail through brush in a forest](/assets/images/34-3-trail-work-3.jpg)

This past spring, members of the Eastford Conservation and Historic
Preservation Commission worked to clear the George Askew Trail behind
Eastford Elementary School, which included trail maintenance, invasive
plant control and shoring up of the foot bridge near the mill pond.

*Courtesy photos*