---
title: Auction fundraiser returns to support 8th grade D.C. trip
author: Adam Minor
---

*EES Good and Services Auction set for next month*

EASTFORD --- The annual Washington D.C. field trip for Eastford
Elementary School eighth graders is an experience of a lifetime for
local youth, but it doesn't come cheap.

That's where the Goods & Services Auction comes in.

This year's auction is slated for Saturday, Nov. 15, and according to
Auction Committee Chair Lauren Barlow, locals will have the chance to
not only support local businesses, but ensure that students will be able
to create "core memories."

"We're in the home stretch," Barlow told the *Communicator*. "\[The
auction is\] a community builder. It's a connection builder. I've seen
it happen. All the profits are going to the kids on the trip. It's such
a unique educational experience. ... It's special, but it's expensive
--- and it's not getting cheaper. So, we are hoping to continue to fund
it. The more people that come out to support it, the better.

The event itself is loaded with activity, featuring both a silent and
live auction, as well as a raffle, with items and services donated by
residents and businesses from all over New England. On top of that, a
bake sale led by Kirstin Budd will satisfy the sweet tooth. Pizza will
also be available for purchase from Pizza 101.

At the time of publication, just over six weeks remain until the event.
Planning happens year-round, but at this point in the process, the
committee is finalizing donations and making final preparations for the
event.

"So far, so good," Barlow remarked when asked how donations were going.
"We are hoping to get all our donations in by Nov. 1, so that way our
wonderful teacher and parent volunteers who are processing them can do
that. We will take donations at any point, but it would be nice to get
them in by Nov. 1."

Several residents and local businesses in Eastford and surrounding towns
have already given their support with gift card donations for the
raffle, or services offered for the auction. Barlow said that other,
more regional attractions like Whale's Tail Waterpark (Lincoln, N.H.),
Lake Compounce Amusement & Water Park (Bristol, Conn.) and Six Flags New
England (Agawam, Mass.) have donated, as well as other organizations
from around New England.

"We are so grateful to all those who want to make a donation," she said,
adding that the auction is more than just a benefit for students --- it
also benefits the businesses that participate.

"There might be people who don't know about a specific business, but if
you win a gift card to a place, you're more likely to go, and if you're
happy, you'll go back," Barlow said. "At the end of the day, the auction
helps everyone out."

More unique experiences are also offered during the live auction. In
previous years, offerings like "Principal for a Day" at EES, reserved
Graduation seating, and "Pie a Board of Education member in the face"
offer fun, memorable experiences that also bring in major funds for the
trip. The idea is to attract as many people to the event as possible.

"The more people come to it, odds are it will be a successful event,"
Barlow said. "We really want to reach more people than last year. The
goal is to reach more and more people. We are really hoping people come
to check us out. You are supporting our students directly with a core
experience of their lives. It's super fun. It's a fun event, and a great
way to do Christmas shopping, too. You're supporting local businesses
and students at the same time with a family-friendly event."

In the month leading up to the auction, the committee hopes to utilize
the "Eastford School Auction" Facebook page to feature weekly big-ticket
items. Students and staff at EES are also directly involved, with many
staff, and students (with their families) providing themed baskets and
other items.

"Shout out to the staff at Eastford School. We have awesome staff who
group together and put together baskets or items up for auction," Barlow
said.

This year's Goods and Services Auction will be held Saturday, Nov. 15,
with doors opening at 5 p.m. For more information, or to inquire about
donating an item for the auction, contact the committee at
<auction@eastfordct.org>.



![people at a silent auction, with items on tables in a school gym](/assets/images/34-3-auction-2024.jpg)
Last year's Goods and Services Auction at Eastford Elementary School
raised more than $18,000 to benefit the school's annual field trip to
Washington D.C. This year's auction is slated for Saturday, Nov. 15.
Doors open at 5 p.m.

*File photo*