---
title: "From the Eastford Independent Fire Company #1, Inc."
author: Jeannine Spink
---

Welcome fall --- it's time to start thinking about seasonal preparations
to keep your families safe.

The EIFC responded to 28 "911" emergencies in July and 21 in August.

Fire apparatus is not the only annual mandatory testing that needs to
take place. In accordance with NFPA 1582, an annual physical, completed
by an approved company doctor is scheduled. This comprehensive health
assessment is designed to ensure that firefighters and EMS are fit for
duty, helping to maintain a healthy workforce by identifying potential
health risks, and ensuring that each member is physically, mentally, and
emotionally capable of performing their duties safely.

Fire Prevention Week (FPW) 2025 is Oct. 5-11. Fire Prevention Week has a
history. Since 1922, the NFPA has sponsored a public observance of FPW.
In 1925, President Calvin Coolidge proclaimed FPW a national observance,
making it the longest-running public health observance in our country.
During FPW, children and adults learn how to stay safe in case of a
fire. FPW is in commemoration of the Great Chicago Fire, which began on
Oct. 8, 1871.

The EIFC provides lifesaving public education at the Eastford School
annually in an effort to help reduce casualties caused by fires.
Members, in full turnout gear, visit the school, plan a timed evacuation
scenario, watch a video about fire safety and of course "goodie bags"
given to the children. The fire trucks are there permitting the students
to check out the equipment, see the lights flashing, and hear the
sirens. The intent of this visit is to assure students that firemen and
medical technicians are their "friends."

In a fire, mere seconds can mean the difference between a safe escape
and a tragedy. It is important for every member of the community to take
time to make sure they understand how to stay safe, prepare an escape
route, and to make sure they have the resources needed to keep the
family, and town safe. Changing the batteries in smoke detectors and
carbon monoxide monitors when the clock changes is recommended.

Ready today, preparing for tomorrow: Since fall is here, winter can't be
far behind. It is time to prepare! Part of this process is to assure
that your green house number signs are clearly visible from the road. It
is important to post a second set of house number signs if you share a
common driveway with two or more houses. Time is of the essence when we
are responding to a specific location. Green number signs with white
reflective numbers are free. Stop by the station any Wednesday evening
at 7 p.m. to get your signs and numbers.

To assure prompt and efficient transfer of medical information between
patient, fire company, ambulance and hospital, it is essential that a
document is provided to the responders listing what your health issues
are, what medications you take, for what purpose, prescribed and over
the counter, what dose, and known allergies. This information will be
passed on to the transporting ambulance to the receiving hospital
emergency room.

It is the mission of the EIFC to provide prompt and efficient service to
the Town of Eastford. If you want to make a difference in your town,
consider joining the 100-percent volunteer fire department. New members
are welcomed. A tax-deductible donation can be sent to the EIFC, P.O.
Box 333, Eastford, CT 06242.

*- Submitted by Jeannine Spink*
