---
title: EIFC Secures State Funding for Fire Station Upgrades
---

EASTFORD --- State Rep. Pat Boyd (D-Pomfret) announced on Sept. 4 that
the Eastford independent Fire Co. has secured $75,000 in state funding
during the 2025 Legislative Session. The Connecticut General Assembly
approved this funding as part of the 2026-2027 State Budget.

The funding was allocated to the Eastford Independent Fire Co. for the
2026 Fiscal Year and will be used for necessary repairs and upgrades to
the firehouse. This funding is a line item in the State Budget as part
of a larger $647,000 approved for Fiscal Year 2026, allocated to
various police and fire departments across the state. The line item was
included in the biennial State Budget at the request of Boyd, who serves
as House Chairman of the Public Safety & Security Committee.

"The upgrades and repairs to the Eastford Independent Fire \[Co.\] are
essential to ensure the fire department can continue to operate in the
building and first responders have access to the resources they need to
help residents," Boyd said in a press release. "Things are different in
rural areas, and state assistance is welcomed. I am thrilled to see this
funding included in the State Budget, approved by the General Assembly
this year and signed into law by Gov. Ned Lamont. It is important we
continue to provide the necessary funding like this in the Quiet Corner
to assist towns."

Eastford Independent Fire Co. President James Roy outlined some of the
concerns this state funding will address.

"This year, the fire department has been faced with crucial structural
repairs to the exterior of our building," Roy said. "In an attempt to
replace our outdated windows with energy-efficient upgrades, we found
significant wood rot around the windows and the wall studs. Upon further
inspection by licensed contractors, it was determined that to fix the
problem, it would require removing all the vinyl siding, repairing the
rotted studs and window frames, and fixing insulation that is either
missing or water-damaged. In the process of this, we will upgrade any
exposed electrical, and complete the project by replacing all the
exterior vinyl siding."

EIFC Chief Doug Beaudoin expressed his appreciation for the funding.

"Thanks to the funding \[Boyd\] secured for the EIFC, we will be able to
replace the siding, insulation, and windows --- critical improvements
that will enhance the efficiency and condition of our facility,"
Beaudoin said. "We would not have been able to afford these upgrades
without his help. We are truly grateful for his continued support of the
Quiet Corner emergency services."
