---
title: Municipal Election Information from the Registrar of Voters
---

EASTFORD --- The Municipal Election will be held Tuesday, Nov. 4, 2025.

Early voting for the Municipal Election starts Monday, Oct. 20 and ends
Sunday, Nov. 2. Hours for early voting, most days, will be 10 a.m. to 6
p.m. On Oct. 28 and Oct. 30, early voting will be held from 8 a.m. to 8
p.m. Remember that ballots cast during early voting will be opened and
counted on Election Day.

Voter Registration: Deadline to register is Oct. 17. Election Day
registration is Nov. 4.

Absentee Ballots: Currently, no excuse absentee balloting is not law,
despite the vote last November. Therefore, if you request an absentee
ballot, you must have one of the currently allowed excuses --- military
service, being out of town on Election Day (at college, etc.), illness,
religious reasons, disability, or service as an election official or
worker.

Absentee ballots need to be received before the close of Election Day.
Make sure to plan ahead if you are mailing in your absentee ballot due
to potential lags in the United States Postal Service.

New Voting Machines: The state has instituted new voting machines. These
should not be difficult for people to use, and you will still have the
same kind of ballots that were used in the past. If you are concerned
about the new machines, come early to vote or stop by during the
Registrar's office hours, which are on the second and fourth day of the
month. Voting officials and your registrars will be happy to walk you
through the process.

Questions? Contact your Registrars or Eastford Town Clerk at the
Eastford Town Office Building or Eastford Registrars. Call (860)
974-1885, or stop by during office hours.

Can you help us? We are looking for people to help during the early
voting period. Contact the Town Office Building and let us know if you
would like to help.
