---
title: Eastford Quilt Project Seeks "Martha Masks" to Preserve Local Pandemic History
---

EASTFORD --- A local resident is working to preserve a unique piece of
Eastford's history through a community quilt project, and is seeking
contributions of the well-known "Martha Masks" to complete it.

In February 2020, Linda Knowles traveled from Florida to Eastford to
celebrate Martha Clark's birthday. As she considered returning to
Florida, the COVID-19 pandemic rapidly escalated.

"It felt safer to shelter in place here in Eastford than to make the
long drive back south," Knowles said. "Like many others, I found myself
in a time of extreme isolation --- yet also of neighbors helping
neighbors."

At the start of the pandemic, masks were in short supply and difficult
to purchase. Martha and Linda decided to help. Together, they made more
than 1,400 masks, which were distributed not only throughout Eastford
but also across the United States.

"The school received masks, they were available through the church, and
there was always a selection of them on the table in Martha's breezeway
for anyone in need," Knowles said. "People often requested certain
colors or patterns, which added to the sense of personal connection
during an otherwise disconnected time."

This past spring, Knowles said she was inspired to preserve those
memories by repurposing the masks into a quilt.

"Each mask is being transformed into a fabric square, creating a lasting
artifact of the pandemic era when we were all so careful about social
distancing and so mindful of community support," she said.

Most of the masks were given out locally or to relatives of Eastford
residents. To complete the quilt, Knowles is looking for another 70 to
80 "Martha Masks."

"If you still have one, I would be deeply grateful for your
contribution," Knowles added. "Masks can be dropped off at the Eastford
Town Office Building, and I will make arrangements to collect them."

"Thank you for helping me bring this project to life," Knowles
concluded. "I look forward to sharing the finished quilt with our
community."


*Courtesy photos*

![a colorful quilt](/assets/images/34-3-masks-1.jpeg)

![three colorful fabric masks](/assets/images/34-3-masks-2.jpeg)

Eastford resident Linda Knowles is seeking help to complete a quilting
project to commemorate the pandemic era in town, asking local residents
to donate any leftover masks created by herself and Martha Clark during
that time. Masks can be dropped off at the Eastford Town Office
Building.