---
title: From the First Selectman
author: Deb Richards
---

The Connecticut Department of Transportation (CTDOT) is developing plans
to replace municipally owned and maintained post-mounted sheet aluminum
speed limit signs on municipally owned rural roads. All existing speed
limit signs along roadways included in this project will be replaced
with new, retroreflective signs to ensure proper placement and
compliance with current federal guidelines.

CTDOT states that the fatality rate on rural roads has increased over
the past two years. Additionally, from 2020 to 2021, 19 percent of all
crashes were speeding related. As such, one of the state's safety
initiatives is to replace speed limit signs on higher-risk rural roads
to increase visibility, ensure compliance with standards, and assist
with enforcement efforts. CTDOT will coordinate with the towns during
the design phase. The design plans for this project are expected to be
completed in October, with a tentative advertising date for construction
of December. Eastford will be receiving 90 new speed limit/safety signs.
Connecticut State Police Troop D has been contacted to request increased
patrols on Eastford roads.

The Public Works Supervisor and the First Selectman attended a Safe
Streets 4 All meeting to talk about dangerous intersection and roads in
Eastford. The focus of this meeting was to speak about what can be done
to improve roads safety in Eastford.

Eastford will be receiving two more digital signs funded by the State of
Connecticut. These signs will be placed on roads to monitor speeds, to
collect speeding data and to slow down drivers on our rural roads.
