---
author: Adam Minor
title: Asikainen steps up to lead TEEG
---
*Eastford resident excited to serve Quiet Corner*

![A man posing for a picture](/assets/images/33-4-carl-asikainen.jpg)
*Eastford resident Carl Asikainen is the new Executive Director of the
Thompson Ecumenical Empowerment Group (TEEG).*

EASTFORD --- If you haven't heard the acronym "TEEG" before, Eastford
resident Carl Asikainen hopes to change that.

The Thompson Ecumenical Empowerment Group (TEEG), a "small, grassroots,
non-profit social service agency, may be based in nearby North
Grosvenordale, but Eastford is well within the group's purview, and
they're here to help.

Asikainen, who has lived in Eastford for more than 20 years, was
appointed as TEEG's executive director in August 2024. With years of
experience working in social service, Asikainen was uniquely qualified
to lead TEEG, which started in 1985 as a group of volunteers who united
to serve the Thompson community. Since then, TEEG has blossomed to serve
several towns, including Brooklyn, Canterbury, Killingly, Plainfield,
Pomfret, Putnam, Sterling, Thompson, Union, Woodstock --- and Eastford.

Particularly in Eastford, Asikainen said TEEG provides several services
to Eastford, including a children's playgroup (at TEEG headquarters in
North Grosvenordale); access to the Hand in Hand Program (support for
new and expecting parents); emergency food and monthly opportunity to
utilize the Mobile Food Bank at the Woodstock Town Hall; involvement
through local school districts for support through the Juvenile Review
Board and for Community Services; addiction group support, including for
youth (at TEEG); GED support provided at TEEG by EASTCONN; pet support
clinics offered by the CT Humane Society; and more!

*The Communicator* recently sat down with Asikainen at his office on
Thatcher Road in North Grosvenordale to gain a richer understanding of
what TEEG is, what it does, and how many people, including those of us
in Eastford, may not understand just how needed an organization like
TEEG is in our small community.

**Thank you for taking the time to meet with us, Carl! For our readers
who may not know what TEEG is, can you give us the 30,000-foot overview
about what TEEG is and what TEEG does?**

"If there is really a grassroots local service organization, this is it.
We started from a small group of concerned citizens here in
Grosvenordale \[in 1985\], and they were really concerned with young
people and chronic poverty in this area. It really started \[asking the
question\]: 'What can we do to assist young people?' ... We started
making connections to families and what we can do lift them up. From
those humble beginnings, we have grown to be a really big and robust
feeding program. Our emergency food program is giant. We provide for
probably 60 households a week here at the TEEG building. We also are the
staff for the Pomfret Senior Center and we have a pantry there two days
a week. We do home \[food\] deliveries ... We are also a mobile food
pantry, once a month, at the Woodstock Town Hall, serving anyone who
comes from all over, including Eastford folks --- including those
further away like Stafford or even in Massachusetts. We have a really
big feeding program, with an emphasis on fresh food, we try to flip the
script a little bit. ... We partner with the Friends of Assisi in
Danielson, and Interfaith Human Services of Putnam, Daily Bread Food
Pantry in Putnam, Project PIN in Plainfield, and other food providers to
try to lift up all the boats. Besides the feeding program, we are the
youth service bureau for four towns, but also \[work with\] young people
who may have gotten into some trouble with the law or school, and
instead of the court system, we engage them in community activities
here. ... We do parenting work, specifically a play group that is really
vibrant. There are not a lot of spaces for new and expecting parents to
socialize and have support for parenting. We identify new parents and we
work with them until the kids are in school. It's not a two-month thing.
We try to make sure kids are as ready as possible. The parenting and
youth programs are really incredible. It's wrap-around services that
people need. It\'s not just one thing --- we do all kinds of things to
support. We help with food stamps, Medicaid, we have a CHOICES certified
counselor for health care enrollment. We work with the Access Community
Action Agency for fuel assistance ... we do formal programs like LIHEAP
\[Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program\]. The towns give us some
support, and we administer town support to families that need
assistance. It's really important work. It's really hard work."

**How did you get involved with TEEG? Background of how you became
involved in it?**

"I grew up in Pomfret. I graduated from Woodstock Academy. I did college
in New England, but then I moved to Philadelphia when my bride \[Sam
Asikainen (ne√© Danielson), owner of Animal Care Experts in Thompson\]
got into veterinary school. When I moved to Philadelphia, I had never
seen street homelessness like that. In the late 1990's, I started doing
outreach for Project Home, a really important organization. I was a part
of a team of outreach workers responding to people on the sidewalk.
Coming from Abington and going to street outreach was \[a shock\]. A lot
of what I was doing was outreach with food events to engage with people
living on the street. It was working in crisis housing and food blended
into one thing. From there, I moved into food rescue in Lancaster
County, Pennsylvania, and lived in Coatesville, Penn. When our daughter
was born, we moved back to Connecticut and got a job with End Hunger CT.
I worked in Joe Courtney's district, working in prisons and homeless
shelters, housing sites, and signing them up for our feeding program.
That's how I came to TEEG. I would plop my computer down and screen for
the food stamp program, which turned into a job with TEEG. I worked nine
or 10 years for End Hunger, then came here to TEEG, worked for five
years around food and picked up the feeding program. I switched gears
took a job back in Hartford with the Coalition to End Homelessness
(CCEH). I was doing advocacy work, community impact work, working in
education, training shelter staff, outreach workers, working with
funding, and crisis housing work. That was a fantastic experience that
prepared me for this role because I had a lot of statewide groups I sat
on. ... I came back and did a couple more years of food work, then the
Hiring Committee hired me in July (2024) and I started in August (2024).
I have a late-90's, street-level beginning. I have never been in a
director position before this. I've managed staff but mostly volunteers,
but I've been preparing for this for a while, and given the background
of \[TEEG\], it coming from a direct service background, it fits here.
It's listening to clients, neighborhoods and community needs, I have an
eye on the state terrain, and I am really concerned about these
communities."

**How's it going so far?**

To be honest, that's a tough question! I'm thrilled! It's humbling. When
you look at the level of community support, we are grateful and thankful
to be able to do this work. We are grateful to be able to have all this
trust form the communities to do this. However, it's also a small
business. We are a small business that happens to be a non-profit, we
rely on the winds blowing from federal funds, and we only get funded
through discretionary funding."

**How does being from a town like Eastford impact your ability to do
this job?**

"For this work, Eastford is beautiful! A lot of what we love about it is
that it's small and remote. It's a rural, small community, so we know a
great many people. It's a wonderful spot to raise our kids. My wife grew
up here, so it's no mistake that we are here at all. I like it for this
work in particular. ... It's understanding rural. Other nonprofits
throughout the state, we are challenged here because of the rural nature
of our towns. Eastford is an incredible example of this. Woodstock and
Union too. We are somewhat isolated spaces. Many agencies say they will
serve our towns, but it's hard to get bodies out here to do the service.
I think for me living \[in Eastford\], besides loving all the spaces,
coming back and thinking about the challenges for people near me
geographically, it's about the services we provide. You don't have to go
far to see people struggling to pay rent or be one car breakdown away
from having a crisis in their household. So, I think awareness, and
thinking of the rural versus urban realities of living, it's important
to me to make sure we see people and that they are not forgotten. We've
been here since the 1980's in Thompson, and we have a good sense of
neighborhood, and we still find people that we've overlooked."

**We've mentioned that Eastford is actually one of the towns covered by
TEEG. What do you envision for TEEG's work --- specifically in
Eastford?**

"Our only formal connection \[to Eastford\] would be through local high
schools. We work with United Services, which serves them, but if young
people are going to a local high school, this is where we know Eastford
folks through those connections. Before I was sitting in this seat, I
was on the food side of things for seven years, and I know the Eastford
Baptist Church has the food pantry for Eastford. ... I know that I've
delivered from here at TEEG to that pantry. Looking ahead, I'd like to
do more thinking about the food needs of Eastford residents, making sure
through that pantry, or through a visit to the seniors at the library,
or maybe we have a case manager with some office hours to do a benefit
check-up. Not everyone knows what we do. We appreciate you helping us
spread the word. ... I know we can do more for the town, but we are also
at capacity here, too, so we will do what we can!"

**Do you feel there are any misconceptions about TEEG?**

"We are known in the 'emergency food world.' But it might fall off after
that. Being here, it's obvious I know what we do, and the people we work
with are on the same page. But we are a grassroots non-profit. Awareness
is still something we have to work on. Letting folks know about the
important work we do, not only in food, but with parents, is important.
That puts us in league with WIC (Women, Infants & Children), DCF
(Department of Children and Families) and Care for Kids, and that's a
lot of circles. Community relations is important, talking about what we
do, and we want to make sure as many know about it as possible."

**It\'s no small task. According to your Annual Report, nearly 64,000
lives were touched by something you do during your previous fiscal year.
That's a lot of good being done. People need to understand that we are
talking about a much bigger scope than people realize for a such a small
area.**

"It's a lot of lives touched. But I would also say, the way we continue
to do the work is that we rely on some state money, a lot of small
grants, some foundation money from the Eastern CT Community Foundation,
but our Annual Appeal is crucial. Most of our money is small donations.
It's just how it works. We have 180 thank you letters just for people
who have mailed out \$5 and above just in December. It adds up. At the
end of the day, this makes us the organization that we are. People know
about us, trust us as stewards of these resources, and they trust us to
get resources to people in a sensitive and meaningful way. I knew that
most of the money came from small donations, but as I'm signing every
letter saying 'thank you,' I realize that some people just have \$10,
and other people haven't been able to donate in forever, then they get
on their feet and give us hundreds of dollars and volunteer their time.
There are lots of stories of people we've helped that want to give back
after going through a hard time where we've helped them. It's heavy
work, because people are going through a lot."

**You are dealing many times with people that are struggling greatly.
That work must get personal very quickly.**

"It's challenging, for sure. The staff are here because they are
concerned. They want to do a great thing. We need them. They do such a
good job, but it's not without a heaviness. I want to make sure this is
a great place to work, but we want our staff to be looking at themselves
and their wellness."

**What do you see for the future of TEEG? Growth? Maintaining? What
determines success for TEEG?**

"Well, we've reached capacity in this building. It's a good problem.
It's a beautiful building. We filled it up a little quicker than we
thought. We're going to build another building for a more robust food
center. We'll build across the street, with a loading dock, more room
for food processing, space for a commercial kitchen so we can process
more food, and a food pantry --- our market --- that serves 60
households a week. One plan is to grow a little more, our Building
Committee is working on this. I want to take that ball and keep running
with it. I think there are changes coming around assistance for schools
and young people, mental health support, clinicians attached to schools
--- and behavioral health is a big deal for us. We see a lot of
untreated behavioral health issues, so I think more money is not always
the right answer, but you need training and people to come in and do
that work. We have a basic need of people. We need more folks to want to
do that. We suffer because we're a smaller business, because we can't
pay as much as the state can pay to do similar work. We struggle to
retain people, but I want to make opportunities for staff to advance,
professionalizing our staff and getting them trained up. We want to make
it a great place to work, but also have supports in place. We want to
keep the grants going, the community listening and involvement robust.
There's room to advance, change, and pivot if we need to.

**Are there volunteer opportunities available for people who might just
want to help out?**

"Yes! Volunteers drive the show. We need volunteers! ... We have a lot
of young folks. If someone is looking to spend some time with their
kids, we have a community garden, day care, and lots of other
opportunities. If you are looking for volunteer opportunities, check
with us. Liz Perry is our volunteer coordinator. She's very busy!"

**Thank you again for spending this time with us! Final question. If you
could sum up TEEG to someone who has never heard of it, what is the most
important thing you would say to give them the gist of what you
represent here?**

"The word 'grassroots' is kind of overused in a lot ways. When I hear
'grassroots,' I'm thinking that this started as a small response to a
problem. And so, we are a historical agency that is very grassroots in
its nature. The funding is grassroots, the programs come from people.
That's what I would say. We are considered a mid-sized non-profit. A
budget of \$1.5 million is 'middle sized,' but we are, at heart, a
grassroots agency that is here to respond to real, local community
needs."

To get involved with TEEG, call Volunteer Coordinator Liz Perry at (860)
923-3458, or visit [the TEEG website contact page](https://teegonline.org/contact-us/). For more
information on giving to TEEG, visit [the TEEG website giving page](https://teegonline.org/giving/).

*Adam Minor may be reached at [eastfordnews@gmail.com](mailto:eastfordnews@gmail.com).*
