---
title: Calendar
---

*Calendar entries must be sent to the editor no later than the 15^th^ of
the month preceding publishing. Please send all calendar content to
[eastfordnews@gmail.com](mailto:eastfordnews@gmail.com). Please limit calendar submissions to less than
100 words.*


## Ongoing

Adult Community Volleyball is held each Monday at 6:30 p.m., at Eastford
Baptist Church, 133 Union Rd., Eastford, CT 06242. Join us for a few
games of casual volleyball! No need to be a professional! Just come and
have some free fun with friends and make new ones! No registration
required.


## February

### Saturday, Feb. 1

Eastford Public Library hosts "Take Your Child to the Library Day" at
10:30 a.m. We will be open special hours from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. as we
honor this extraordinary day with a puppy love theme. We will have a
story, craft, snack and a snuggle session with some puppies from our
local shelter PawSafe! Eastford resident and author Julia Kneeland will
share one of her beloved children's books with us at noon. Come in and
cast your vote on our "Cutest Pet Photo Contest." The winner will be
announced on Feb. 20!

### Wednesday, Feb. 5

Ragged Hill Woods Environmental Science Programs at Windham Tolland 4-H
Camp, 326 Taft Pond Rd., Pomfret. For Pre-K to Grade 8 students.
February 5:
"How Trees Grow"; Feb. 12: "Catapults"; Feb. 19: "Fur, Feathers, Scales
& Skin:
How It Keeps Animals In!" At 4:30 p.m.., $20 per session. E-mail
[raggedhillwoods@gmail.com](raggedhillwoods@gmail.com) to register.

### Thursday, Feb. 6

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, Feb. 8

Join Pastor Timothy Howard Jr. at Eastford Baptist Church on Saturday,
Feb. 8, at 6 p.m., for a Community Painting Class. Paint brushes, paint,
and canvasses will be provided for free, but you are more than welcome
to bring your own supplies. Pastor Howard is a longtime artist, and will
guide you through a colorful, creative scene. [Register for free online
at](http://www.eastfordbaptist.com), under
Events. Eastford Baptist Church is located at 133 Union Rd., Eastford,
CT 06242. Contact the church at (860) 974-1414, or email
<eastfordbaptistoffice@gmail.com> for more information.

### Wednesday, Feb. 12

Eastford Public Library hosts "Maker's Night" from 6 to 7:30 p.m. This
is an adult and teen craft program where we gather together to create
and converse.  Come have fun with us! Please note this program takes
place on the second Wednesday of every month.

### Thursday, Feb. 13

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
Valentine's Day story, craft, snack and time of free play. Please note
that we will have drop-in crafts available all week to celebrate this
sweet holiday.

### Saturday, Feb. 15

Join us at the Windham-Tolland 4-H Camp, 326 Taft Pond Rd, Pomfret
Center, for our Camper Game Day from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., for boys and
girls ages 6-12. Beat the winter blues! Lunch and snack provided with
games, crafts and lots of fun. Bring appropriate clothes to be outdoors
for part of the day. Admission is $25/child. Call 860-974-3379 to
register by Feb. 10, or e-mail <registrar@4hcampct.org>.

The Congregational Church of Eastford presents "Cupcake Wars" on Feb.
15, from 2-4 p.m. at Eastford Elementary School. Free! [Registration on the church
to enter the competition](https://cceastford.org/cupcake-wars/). All are
invited to attend, taste cupcakes, and vote for the best recipe and best
display in the People's Choice Awards!

### Sunday, Feb. 16

Visit the Windham-Tolland 4-H Camp Open House from 1-3 p.m. Meet the
director and other camp staff, take a camp tour, registration materials
available. Take advantage of early bird discounts! Details available at
the open house or [on the website](www.4hcampct.org).

### Thursday, Feb. 20

Loss of a Spouse Seminar on Thursday, Feb. 20, from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. at
the Congregational Church of Eastford Office, 4 County Road, Eastford.
[Register online  to find help and encouragement through this special 2-hour seminar](https://cceastford.org/griefshare/).

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m. the Friends of the
Eastford Public Library will have their monthly meeting.  All are
welcome to attend. 

### Saturday, Feb. 22

In honor of Heart Month, Eastford Public Library will be offering an
instructional CPR course at 1 p.m. Limit of 10 participants.
Certification is available upon request. Please reach out if interested.

### Wednesday, Feb. 25

Eastford Public Library hosts "Grim Readers Book Club" at 6 p.m. "Look
Closer," by David Ellis is on display and available for check out. Come
in and join this thrilling and fun group that meets every other month on
the fourth Tuesday.

### Thursday, Feb. 27

GriefShare 13-week program on Thursdays, Feb. 27 through May 22 from
6:30 to 8 p.m. at the Congregational Church of Eastford Office, 4 County
Road, Eastford. [Register online to find help and encouragement after the death of a spouse, child, family member, or friend](https://cceastford.org/griefshare/).
Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 


## March

### Saturday, March 1

Eastford Public Library will be celebrating Dr. Suess's birthday at
10:30 a.m. with a story and craft. Please register.

### Sunday, March 2

Eastford Baptist Church will host its annual Chili Cook-off Sunday,
March 2, after the A.M. Worship Service. Join us for Sunday School at
9:15 a.m., worship at 10:30 a.m., then stay after for fellowship in the
Family Activity Center, and enjoy a variety of chili recipes. Chilis
will be judged and prizes will be awarded for the top recipes. Eastford
Baptist Church is located at 133 Union Rd., Eastford, CT 06242. Contact
the church at (860) 974-1414, or email <eastfordbaptistoffice@gmail.com>
for more information.

### Thursday, March 6

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, March 8

Eastford Public Library hosts the "BBC Book Club". All are welcome to
attend this multi-genre book club that meets every other month on the
second Saturday at 1 p.m.  This month the genre will be non-fiction but
has yet to be determined.  Copies of the book club pick will be on
display at the library to check out.   

### Wednesday, March 12

Eastford Public Library hosts "Maker's Night" from 6 to 7:30 p.m. Join
us!

### Thursday, March 13

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, March 15

Eastford Public Library hosts a St. Patrick's Day story time and craft.
Please register for this event.

### Sunday, March 16

DivorceCare 13-week program on Sundays, March 16 to June 15 (no meeting
on Easter Sunday) from 5:30 to 7 p.m. at the Congregational Church of
Eastford Office, 4 County Road, Eastford. This is a new program being
offered to the community by our church! We look forward to providing
help, healing, and a fresh start to those who are separated or divorced.
[Register online here](https://cceastford.org/divorcecare/).

### Thursday, March 20

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m. the Friends of the
Eastford Public Library will have their monthly meeting.  All are
welcome to attend. 

### Saturday, March 22

Eastford Public Library hosts "Family Game Night with Pizza," at 5 p.m.
Please register.

### Thursday, March 27

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m.  Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, March 29

Eastford Public Library hosts an educational family program at 10:30
a.m. where we will be making worm composters. Space is limited, please
register.
