---
title: Congregational Church of Eastford Update
author: Mike Moran and Evan Burgess
---
Hello, Eastford!

In American life, different months mean different holidays --- and a
quick walk through the store's "seasonal" aisle gives the clear signal.
February is all about love, red hearts and candy.

Back when I was a pre-teen, there was a popular song that went like
this: "What the world needs now is love, sweet love..." The year 1965
was 60 years ago! Those lyrics were true then, and it is certainly true
today. There is so much chaos and discord. There are wars between
nations and even within our own. There are wars in families and even
wars within our own hearts. We battle habits, fears, anger, sorrows and
selfishness. It seems the battels will never end.

Just imagine if there were a great upwelling of love in the midst of all
the troubles in today's world. I am not writing about romantic,
"Hallmark Movie" love --- but crazy love that even loves the unlovable,
the sort of love that can love even those who would seek our harm. If
you have been hurt, wounded, cheated --- if you have been the victim of
someone unloving --- imagine if you had the sort of love in your heart
that could not only forgive, but actually seek to bless your enemies.
Such love might seem unreachable, yet it is very near to us all. I speak
of the love of our great God who "so loved the world that He gave His
one and only Son (Jesus)." This love of God is so great that He is able
to love us when we are at our worst. He is able to love us even when we
are acting as His enemies. That is some kind of amazing love.

All that to say that the two churches in Eastford --- Eastford Baptist
and the Congregational Church of Eastford --- are both here to represent
Jesus to all those who do not yet know that love. Perhaps you are
hurting, wounded, sorrowful, hopeless, afraid and lonely. Maybe you are
fighting battles in life and cannot seem to find victory. Or maybe
things are pretty good in your life, but yet there is something missing.
Do you feel well loved?

I can tell you that those who know Jesus do feel well loved. And here's
the amazing part. No matter who you are, where you come from, or what
you have done in life (even if it is really, really awful), the love of
Jesus is so big that He will forgive you and welcome you into His
family.

We as a local church do what we do because we know the love He has for
us, and it is breathtaking. And we just want to share that love with
whoever will receive it. Maybe that is you. Join us on a Sunday when we
meet to celebrate and worship Him. [Check out our website for ways you might be blessed](https://cceastford.org). 
For instance, we will be
offering programs for those who are grieving in February, and starting a
divorce care ministry in March. [Or, check out Eastford Baptist](https://eastfordbaptist.com). 
That same love, the same message, and the same
Jesus is in both congregations. We just want to introduce Him to you.

"What the world needs now is love, sweet love." In Jesus that love is
here, it is here now, and it is on offer for you. So, my invitation is
offered on behalf of the God who loves you more than you can imagine.

## From Associate Pastor Evan Burgess

Hello, Eastford!

My name is Evan Burgess, and I"m excited to introduce myself as the new
associate pastor at the Congregational Church of Eastford! Though my
family and I have only been out here since October, we're already
starting to feel at home in this wonderful community! My wife and I were
born and raised in Manchester, Conn., so we're grateful to get to raise
our 4-year-old son back in New England, especially here in the beautiful
quiet corner.

We moved back to Connecticut from Wisconsin, having lived in the Midwest
for the last several years working with a mission"s organization called
Ethnos360. My wife and I were trained to plant churches in very remote,
tribal locations, and funnily enough the Lord brought us to a different
kind of remote spot --- Eastford. With our travels and experiences
bringing us all over the country and world, we're excited to put roots
down here, and to start serving and showing love to this wonderful
community.

Since arriving, I've been so impressed by the warmth and spirit of the
people here. From hearing how the town cared for our church after our
building burnt down, to the everyday interactions that make this town
special, it's clear that this is a place where neighbors look after each
other.

As I get settled in, I'm excited to learn more about our town's history,
and how our church can better love and serve this community. I'm eager
to contribute in any way I can, whether it's to provide a listening ear,
counsel, prayer, or just being a friendly face.

If you see me around town, please don't hesitate to say hello --- I'd
love to meet you! I look forward to what's ahead and getting to know
more of you in the months and years to come. And as always, we'd love to
have you join us on a Sunday morning at 10 a.m. in the Eastford
Elementary School gym. Our church offers programs and support groups for
all ages, so check us out at [cceastford.org](https://cceastford.org)!
