---
title: ECHPC honors four with Lifetime Achievement awards
---
*Courtesy photos*

![several people, four holding awards](/assets/images/33-4-echpc-1.jpg)
*The Eastford Conservation and Historic Preservation Commission with the
four Lifetime Achievement awardees.*

![four people posing with awards](/assets/images/33-4-echpc-2.jpg)
*The Eastford Conservation and Historic Preservation Commission presented
Lifetime Achievement Awards to, from left, Mary Ellen Ellsworth, Deb
Lee, Tom DeJohn, and Ralph Yulo.*

EASTFORD --- Four members of the Eastford Conservation and Historic
Preservation Commission (ECHPC) were presented with Lifetime Achievement
awards on Dec. 3, 2024, at the group's monthly meeting. The four were
honored for their more than 20 years of continuous membership on the
commission, since its founding in 2001. The awardees were Mary Ellen
Ellsworth, Ralph Yulo, Deb Lee, and Tom DeJohn.

The ceremony was attended by Eastford First Selectman Deb Richards, the
commission's original chairman, Steve Broderick, and the awardees'
friends and family. Speakers at the event noted that each of the
awardees had shown themselves over many years of service to be selfless,
reliable, persistent and cooperative members who wanted to make a
difference for their town.

Individual remarks concerning each of the awardees were as follows:

- Mary Ellen Ellsworth: Mary Ellen is a person of high standards and
consistent principles who passionately believes in public service. She
does not easily give in to discouragement or defeat. If she thinks
something needs to be done, she won't give up.

- Ralph Yulo: Ralph deeply loves Eastford and is always ready to do his
part for the greater good no matter what the task. He likes to get
things done and has enjoyed his time on the commission because, in his
words, "We do things, we don't just talk about them." He also brings a
great understanding of the natural world to the work of the commission
as a retired professor of science education.

- Deb Lee: Deb has great ambitions for the commission and is always
willing to undertake ambitious missions to accomplish important work.
She is especially interested in combating invasive plant species. She
has a deep commitment to environmental issues and brings a profound
understanding of ecological systems as a result of her advanced degrees
and professional work in the field.

- Tom DeJohn: Tom is a skilled builder who takes pride in quietly
leading and attending to many of the upkeep and maintenance issues
associated with the town's hiking trails, historic cemeteries and the
Old Town Pound. He puts great thought into planning this work and
undertaking tasks in a safe and professional manner. He is an
indispensable member of the commission. He also serves as chairman of
the town's Inland Wetland's Commission.

For those unfamiliar with the commission's work, please visit the
Eastford Conservation & Historic Preservation Commission on the town's
website. Some of the commission's ongoing tasks include maintaining and
improving the town's hiking trails and historic sites, such as the Old
Boston Turnpike Trail, Askew Trail, Old Connecticut Path, Old Town
Pound, and some of the town's older cemeteries. It has worked to
eliminate invasive water chestnuts from a local pond and preserve open
space and farmland with protective easements. Current projects include
mapping Eastford's historic stone walls with assistance from UConn and
working to remove invasive plants and add native plants over the old
town landfill to create a healthier wildlife habitat.

Anyone interested in joining the Commission or participating in a
project or two (no pressure, commitment level is up to you!) should
contact chairman Roger Wolfe through the Town's Office Building at
860-974-1885.
