---
title: In the Garden
author: Susan Burns
---

Seven Tips for Keeping your Houseplants Healthy in Winter

From *Garden Design Magazine*: "Houseplants are often appreciated the
most during the dead of winter, when we are indoors and long to be
surrounded by lush greenery. It can be especially challenging to keep
houseplants healthy during the colder months because of
less-than-favorable conditions, like drying indoor heat and dwindling
daylight. Below are a few tips for modifying your plant care routine to
get your houseplants through the winter and ready to welcome spring:

1\) Although you may be tempted to water your houseplants more
frequently in winter because of the dry indoor air, most of them
actually do better with longer times between watering because they are
growing more slowly. Use less water and water less often. Always use
room temperature water.

2\) Take a break from fertilizing plants because most are semi-dormant
during the winter months. Using fertilizer to stimulate growth will
prevent your plants from getting the rest they need. As soon as you see
signs of new growth in spring, you may fertilize.

3\) Put your plants in the best light you can to compensate from the
lower angle of the sun and fewer daylight hours. If your plants aren't
getting enough sunlight, you will notice them begin to stretch toward
the light source. Rotate your pots a quarter turn every time you water.

4\) Keep houseplants away from heating vents, radiators, fireplaces and
cold drafts entering through doorways and windows. Make sure the foliage
doesn't touch the glass. Sudden blasts of hot or cold air can cause
foliage damage, leaf drop and even death upon prolonged exposure.

5\) Although houseplant pests can be a problem any time of the year,
their populations tend to explode during the fall and winter. Spider
mites, in particular, thrive in the warm, dry conditions of a heated
home. Spot pests early because they can multiply rapidly and be hard to
get rid of.

6\) Because there's less sunlight during the winter, it's particularly
important to keep your plant's leaves free of dust so they can take in
as much light as possible.

7\) If you need to re-pot a plant, choose a new container that is no
more than two inches in diameter larger than the current pot.

I hope these tips will help you to take care of your plants during the
winter months. In May, you may bring them outside where they will thrive
as long as you adhere to their light requirements.
