---
title: Legislative Update
author: State Sen. Jeff Gordon
---

The Legislative Session in Harford has started, and it is already busy.
There are many pressing and big issues for us to attend to, such as
crafting a new, two-year state budget; keeping the state on an even keel
with its spending and financial status; not increasing taxes; paying
down billions in debt; supporting our towns such as Eastford; stopping
the state from taking control from you about zoning decisions in
Eastford; smartly investing in expanding housing affordability;
promoting work force development; increasing support for public
education; creating wise and affordable energy and climate policies;
supporting local health care services; helping law enforcement, fire
services, and emergency medical services; and much more.

We must do more to make Connecticut more affordable for more people,
reduce our sky-high electric bills, further cut taxes, make our
communities safer, protect local decision-making of land use zoning in
our towns, defend all our rights and medical freedoms for everyone, and
do what we can do realistically to make a better future for all in
Connecticut.

Some items are 1.) Providing tax credits for working families; 2.)
Updating last year's law about property tax exemptions for 100-percent
disabled veterans; 3.) Fixing Connecticut's energy policy and high
electricity/energy costs; 4.) Working on housing affordability; 5.) Work
force development and training; and 6.) Protecting and improving health
care. I have a number of serious proposals on these issue that if passed
can help people in the district and throughout the state.

Three exciting initiatives I am working on are to create 1.) A $500 tax
credit for each child 17 years or younger, and for household dependents
(for example, an adult disabled child declared as a dependent on a
parent's income tax form); 2.) A $500 tax credit for family caregivers
of seniors to help cover their costs; and 3.) An up to $675 tax credit
for family caregivers of disabled veterans. Other states are doing
these. I believe the time is now for Connecticut to do the same.

I am serving as the Ranking Senator on both the Planning & Development
Committee and on the Veterans & Military Affairs Committee. I am also
continuing to serve on the Appropriations, Public Health, and Public
Safety & Security Committees. I look forward to remaining Co-Chair of
the Rural Caucus and being Co-Chair of the Sportsmen Caucus.

Stay tuned for information about my in-person and virtual office hours.
I maintain an open-door policy. As always, please reach out to me if I
can help you with a constituent service, answer a question, or take up a
concern. You can call my office at (860) 240-800, e-mail me at
[jeffrey.gordon@cga.ct.gov](mailto:jeffrey.gordon@cga.ct.gov), check for news and updates at
[www.senatorgordon.com](https://www.ctsenaterepublicans.com/senators/jeff-gordon/), or learn about what I am doing on [Facebook at
"Senator Jeff Gordon."](https://www.facebook.com/senatorjeffgordon/)

Thank you again for the opportunity to be your State Senator. I look
forward to all we can do together to help Eastford, the Senate district,
and our state.
