---
title: From the Superintendent
author: Donna Leake
---

It may still be winter, but the number of hours of sunlight is
increasing, and retail stores are stocking up on gardening supplies and
other outdoor living items in anticipation of the arrival of spring. As
we move into the second month of 2025, the school and district staff
have been busy the past six months providing for the learning needs of
all Eastford students.

At Eastford Elementary School, planning for our future students is also
very important. As with all our educational endeavors, we are most
successful with support from families. The Eastford School Readiness
Program will be sending its annual Needs Assessment to families we know
of that have children ages birth to 4 years old. We strongly encourage
all families with young children in town to complete the survey and send
in their results. This information helps us to plan for future space and
staffing needs. [If a survey isn't mailed to you, it can be accessed on our school website, ](https://www.eastfordct.org). Navigate to the 'For Families'
tab, then 'School Readiness' to find the Needs Assessment Survey and
Preschool Registration Forms.

Preschool and Kindergarten registration is open for the 2025-2026 school
year. It is helpful to register as early as possible so that we can
ensure sufficient staffing. [Registration forms can be picked up in the school office and they can be found on the school website,](https://www.eastfordct.org). Navigate to the 'For Families' tab, then 'Forms'.
The 'School Registration' form should be used for kindergarten and the
'Preschool Registration' form should be used for preschool.

Regardless of the grade/age of your child, if your family is new to
town, if you intend to have your children attend school in Eastford for
the remainder of the year or the beginning of the next school year, it
is important that you register them as soon as possible. Working in
partnership with families is important to us. [Please continue to refer to the monthly Principal Newsletters located in the 'For Families' section of our webpage for important updates.]((https://(https://www.eastfordct.org)/for-families/newsletters/))

As mentioned in an earlier article, January marked the beginning of a
new budget season. At their January meeting, the Board of Education
(BOE) accepted for consideration the Superintendent's proposed 2025-26
operating budget. The Finance Committee of the BOE reviewed the budget
proposal at its January workshop meetings. It is anticipated that the
BOE may approve their 2025-26 operating budget at their meeting on Feb.
13. All budget documents to date are posted on our website.

At the BOE meeting on Jan. 9, in addition to taking the Superintendent's
proposed budget under advisement, the BOE took the following actions:

1. Accepted the updated contract with Regional District 19 (E.O. Smith
High School). Currently the Eastford BOE funds the tuition but does not
provide transportation for Eastford students attending E.O. Smith High
School. Students who want to attend E.O. Smith High School must complete
the formal registration and commitment form by March 1 prior to their
freshman year.

2. Approved the one-year extension to the existing transportation
contract with EASTCONN for the 2025-26 school year.

3. Discussed the application process for the Ethel Cushing Scholarship
program. The deadline for applications is Feb. 4. The application
information is posted on the Eastford School District website.

4. Continued its process of deciding to maintain or change the
designated high school for the Eastford School District by gathering and
assessing important financial and programmatic information, obtained
from local high schools. As part of this process, survey information was
obtained from the administration of several high schools. In addition,
E.O. Smith made a presentation to the BOE in the fall and Woodstock
Academy has been invited to make a presentation in the spring. Woodstock
Academy is currently the designated high school for Eastford students.
As such, the BOE pays the tuition and provides transportation for
Eastford students.

As we move into 2025, we will continue to achieve success with the
support of all members of the Eastford Learning Community. Therefore, it
is important that if any members of the community have any ideas,
questions or concerns about the programs, protocols and processes of the
Eastford School District, they do not hesitate to contact me at
[dleake@eastfordct.org](mailto:dleake@eastfordct.org).
