---
title: Scouts stay busy in winter season
---

![Two children in Cub Scout uniforms blowing toy boats along a race track made of gutters](/assets/images/33-4-regatta.jpg)
*Cub Scouts compete in the Rain Gutter Regatta in January. Courtesy photo.*

EASTFORD/ASHFORD --- In December, Scouts from Troop 92 of Ashford and
Eastford enjoyed a holiday party after their regular meeting. The first
January Scout meeting covered Troop 92 history. The Jan. 28 meeting was
at Camp JN Webster at the Scout Heritage Museum.

Troop 92 rechartering with the National Council is complete. This is
important because it provides the Troop with extensive insurance
coverage, as well as training and screening for leaders. It also means
that we comply with their strict guidelines.

Upcoming events include a ski trip on Feb. 2. The Troop will ski at Ski
Sundown in New Hartford. Later in the month, Scouts and Webelos will go
on a "Tropical Vacation" at Mansfield's Community Center, where they
will use their (warm!) pool and game room.

In January Cub Scouts competed in a "Rain Gutter Regatta." This is a
lung-powered sailboat race. This was a joint event with Cub Scouts from
Willington Pack 82. The Cubs plan to have their Pinewood Derby
competition in March. This event is one of Cub Scouts' most popular
events. Competition is fierce! Pinewood Derby will be open to alumni
this year. They can race their old cars again!

Cub Scouts is open to boys and girls starting at age 6. After Cubs, they
can transition to Scouts. Contact Cub Den Leaders if interested. Co-ed
Scout Troops are being phased in gradually.

Troop 92 BSA Ashford/Eastford: Nord Yakovleff, Assistant Scout Master;
Jesse Burnham, Scout Master; Dave Birdsey, Assistant Scout Master; Rob
Hany, Committee Chairman, Assistant Scout Master; Kurt van Heinengen,
Cubmaster; Cub Den Leaders: Amanda Holden, Haley Phillips.
