---
name: Susannah
surname: Hoskins
title: "Eveningâ€™s Song"
authordescription: "Susannah is a freshman at Patrick Henry College."
tags: ["web exclusive"]
permalink: "/4/3/evening-s-song/"
---
When the light in the windows fades with the end of day, I watch the
tavern keeper light the lamps and close the shutters. The clatter of
wood echoes through the room, waking the lone man who sleeps in the far
corner. He blinks, asking for more ale.

I brush dust from the foot of the hearth and sit there on the floor.
Aira glides past me; she balances dirtied dishes in one hand and grips a
brim-full mug in the other. Not a drop of the ale spills, even when she
twirls*. She was born for the job*, I think.

I raise my flute and give an experimental blow. It's still in tune,
thank the Infinites. Visiting the carver is a ridiculous hassle. I tap
my fingers against the wood, and notes sing into existence. An empty
tavern is a rarity on a winter evening, and I'll take full advantage of
this little peace I've been blessed with.

The door slams open. It interrupts me halfway through a lullaby. I
startle, and the song comes to a dissonant halt. A man clomps in, cold
gust of air and spluttered snow following behind him. He shuts the door,
scrapes his shoes on the mat, and strides up to the counter. Aira
appears there an instant later.

"What can I get for you today? Lager, stout, ale, mead?"

The man hums. "Just water. And bread, if you have any." He has a
strange, heavy accent---one that I've never heard before. Where could he
possibly come from?

"Coming right up."

As Aira disappears into the kitchen, the tavern keeper pins me with a
glare. I stare back for a moment, then internally sigh. "Care for a
song, sir?"

The man looks over his shoulder, and I realize that he isn't truly a man
at all---only a boy about my age. He smiles and shakes his head. "No
thank you. Play what you wish." He finds a seat, and I take up the
lullaby once more.

The minutes drag on, and the tavern remains peaceful. I draw melodies
from my flute, the boy draws sips from his cup, and the man in the far
corner draws in steady breaths---asleep yet again. I'm playing a third
song when the boy moves to the table next to me. I pause, and he shakes
his head.

"Don't mind me. I just like the music."

I shrug and resume. When I finish and begin a new song, though, he lifts
a hand. I pause again. "What can I---"

"I'm sorry to interrupt," he says at the same time, then winces. "I
just---do you mind if I join you?" He points to the violin that rests on
the brick.

I raise an eyebrow. No one has ever asked that before. "Sure." What's
the worst that could happen?

Then he picks the violin up. And it doesn't sing, it *dances*. The notes
hum and curl like the babble of a brook. I grin and raise my flute, and
a nature-picture floods the room with the sound of air and water. We're
wandering together through nature, gazing at the wonders.

I can't tell how long we're lost in the music, only that Aira stops us
between the plains and the mountains, where our notes begin to paint the
red of fire and the black of rock.

"Watch out," she says, and steps between us to throw a log in the
hearth.

The boy and I look at each other, and he sets down the violin. "Well,
I've got to be going. Thank you, and have a good evening."

I nod dumbly, staring after him as he tramps out the door.

Aira whistles and slings an arm over my shoulder. "You know who that
was, right?"

"Who?"

She gasps. "You don't *know*? That's Cayden Ijex. He's the biggest
heart-breaker in the kingdom, Nadira---and it's rumored that he's a
magic user."

*A magic user.* "Ah." I huff. So that's why his music was so good.
Should've known. "I'll be staying away from him, then."

Her gaze lingers on the door, and she shifts against my shoulder, mouth
curling into an impish smirk. "Do you think he uses magic to get those
looks?"

"It hadn't crossed my mind." I grimace and shove her off. "Don't be a
ditz, he isn't coming back." For my part, I plan to never think of him
again.

Yet despite my resolve, late that night I lie awake, plagued by circling
thoughts of the magic-wielding boy named Cayden Ijex, and wonder if he
could tell.

And, as I finally drift off, the magic of the winterland hums deep,
hidden in my bones.
