---
name: Grace
surname: Johnson
title: "For either doth on other much rely"
authordescription: "Grace Johnson is a senior Literature major at Patrick Henry College."
tags: ["web exclusive"]
permalink: "/4/3/for-either-other-much-rely/"
description: "While some critics believe Spenser was
oppressive, misogynistic, and patriarchal, Una defies such criticism in
The Faerie Queene with her strength, wisdom, and positive
influence in Redcrosse's life."
---
In the modern world it is fashionable to question the heritage passed
down to us, and Edmund Spenser's *The Faerie Queene* cannot escape such
scrutiny. *The Faerie Queene* has undoubtedly impacted the literary
world and is thus worthy of examination. For example, even though Susan
Frye thoroughly condemns Spenser's treatment of women, she writes,
"Edmund Spenser's *The Faerie Queene* was so widely admired and imitated
from the sixteenth through the nineteenth centuries that its treatment
of chastity, rape, and marriage remains embedded in the way many of us
conceptualize gender relations today... *The Faerie Queene* interacted
with its time so significantly that it helped to fashion our own"
(Violence 49). The literary community should not ask if *The Faerie
Queene* has influenced the world but how it has influenced the world,
particularly in shaping the world's views of men and women. *The Faerie
Queene* is full of knights and ladies who exemplify Spenser's ideal
Christian men and women (as well as their foils). Critics debate whether
his ideals were beneficial or harmful. While some believe Spenser was
oppressive, misogynistic, and patriarchal, Una defies such criticism in
Book I of *The Faerie Queene* with her strength, wisdom, and positive
influence in Redcrosse's life.

Susan Frye believes Spenser supported the oppression of women. She
recognizes that some scholars think Spenser positively portrayed women
but disagrees. She "identif\[ies\] Spenser as a central popularizer,
aestheticizer, \[sic\] and enforcer of marriage through the threat of
rape" ( 52). Spenser takes complicated topics---namely, such topics as
chastity and the treatment of women---and presents them in a
misleadingly positive light. His belief that women are weak and thus men
must protect them is particularly problematic. Spenser believes women
are "vulnerable, threatened, and thus logically protected and possessed
by men" (50). Spenser not only thinks women are more vulnerable than
men, but he concludes that they must therefore be controlled by men.
Frye overwhelmingly disapproves of Spenser's treatment of women. He
demeans them, turning them into weak beings who must live under men's
control.

Frye's concerns seem to be especially centered on Spenser's treatment of
Queen Elizabeth. She claims Spenser "redefine\[s\]" chastity as not
having sex outside of marriage, a definition based on "men's desire to
control women's behavior" (Competition 114-116). In *The Faerie Queene*,
women who violate this patriarchal definition of chastity are faced with
rape or physical restraint (135). Women are weak and must submit to men,
particularly by remaining chaste, or else they will face violent
consequences. Frye's view of Spenser is harsh. She believes Spenser
passed down a damaging view of the sexes to the modern world. If she is
correct and Spenser has such a cruel view of women, the literary
community should be wary of *The Faerie Queene*. However, a closer
inspection of *The Faerie Queene* offers an alternative conclusion to
Frye's: women need to be protected but not controlled, for they are
strong in character, courageous, powerful, and wise.

Before exploring Book I of Spenser's *Faerie Queene*, it is best to
understand Spenser's motivations in writing his epic. William Schofield
writes that *The Faerie Queene* was meant to be more than a story: "He
planned it first and foremost as a book of ethical instruction...He
desired through it to show the operations of virtue and vice, in hope to
improve the morals of English youth" (144). Indeed, each book of *The
Faerie Queene* is structured around a particular virtue. Book I, for
example, is centered on holiness. The good characters in *The Faerie
Queene* model the best Christian behavior, and the evil characters
display the lows of human nature. According to Schofield, Spenser
particularly wanted to create virtuous gentlemen: "'THE general end of
all the \[Faery Queen\],' Spenser himself declared, was 'to fashion a
gentleman or noble person in virtuous and gentle discipline'" (151).
Spenser sought to form his readers into noble gentlemen who lived
virtuous lives.

However, the reader should not conclude that Spenser disregarded women;
in fact, Spenser sought to praise women and create examples of virtuous
women. Reflecting on *The Divine Comedy* and *The Faerie Queene*, Anne
Paolucci says that "both poets began, according to their own testimony,
with a desire to glorify a woman" (Paolucci 184). *The Faerie Queene*
might be aimed at raising up noble knights, but all readers should walk
away with a higher appreciation for the author's chosen woman.
Furthermore, love for a fair maiden plays an important role in chivalry
and knighthood. Schofield comments on the importance of love in
Spenser's writings: "'Throughout all ages,' he says, 'with the praise of
arms and chivalry the praise of beauty has been joined,' and that
reasonably, 'for either doth on other much rely.' To him love was 'the
crown of knighthood,' and he lingered joyfully over ancient tales in
which, though simply, it was exhibited as such" (161). Knights and their
Ladies go together. An engaging story about a Knight needs a fair maiden
for him to love; a Knight's story is not complete unless he has a Lady.
Spenser thus shows how Knights should treat their Ladies and what a
Lady's role is in her Knight's life. Paolucci explains, "The true
subject of both poems is, no doubt, the height and depth of the
experience of Mankind, or Everyman; and yet, it cannot be denied that
both are love poems, and that the glorification of women...has a large,
if not central, part in the praise of love" (184). Though Spenser wanted
his story to teach proper knightly behavior, he also sought to elevate
women and show how wonderful they could be. Thus, readers find examples
of what Spenser believes are virtuous women. In Book I, Una illustrates
a most honorable woman while Duessa is her foil.

Readers cannot deny that Spenser portrays women as physically weaker
than men and thus in need of protection. This does not necessarily make
Spenser a misogynist. Early on in Book I, Archimago deceives Redcrosse
into leaving Una. This is a terrible problem. A good Knight, Spenser
writes, does not leave his Lady unless a thorough investigation reveals
egregious behavior. Redcrosse makes a terrible decision in leaving Una
so quickly. Spenser warns young knights to learn from Redcrosse's
example:

> Beware of fraud, beware of ficklenesse,\
> In choice, and change of thy deare loved Dame,\
> Least thou of her beleeve too lightly blame,\
> And rash misweening doe thy hart remove:\
> For unto knight there is no greater shame,\
> Then lightnesse and inconstancie in love;\
> That doth this Redcrosse knights ensample plainly prove (1.4.3-9).

It is shameful for a Knight to abandon his Lady so abruptly. A Knight
ought not to change his affections quickly; such behavior is
dishonorable, both because of his inconsistency and because it leaves
the Lady vulnerable. Women need a protector. A Lady without her Knight
is vulnerable. Mournfully the narrator asks, "Who now is left to keepe
the forlorne maid / From raging spoile of lawlesse victors will?"
(1.3.379-380). Indeed, Una is captured and almost raped by a pagan
(1.3.382-396; 1.6.28-54). However, unlike Frye's arguments, this threat
of rape is not to force an errant woman back into submission. Rather, it
is an example of the awful horrors that occur when a Knight leaves his
Lady. Without a Knight, Una is at the mercies of evil men and beasts;
her "last vaine helpe" is in "thrilling shriekes, and shrieking cryes,"
hoping someone hears and comes to save her (1.6.47-48). In short, one
cannot deny that Spenser believes women need to be protected. However,
it is not an authoritarian, cruel forcing of women into a patriarchal
system with the threat of rape if they disobey. Rather, it is a
recognition that women are more susceptible to the desires of evil men,
and can easily be hurt or raped. Women are physically vulnerable and
need men to protect them, and it is shameful for a man to fail in this
duty.

However, while Spenser's women may be physically weak, they have strong
characters. Spenser's women are not weak and frail in every way, needing
to be protected and coddled at every turn. Una may be weak physically,
but spiritually she often surpasses Redcrosse. Indeed, Redcrosse's
failure lets Una's great character shine. When Redcrosse leaves Una
without a word, she mourns his disappearance (1.2.63). Though Redcrosse
quickly finds a new Lady, Una remains loyal to Redcrosse even when she
meets another good knight: "But she all vowd unto the Redcrosse
knight...Ne in this new acquaintaunce could delight, / But her deare
heart with anguish did torment" (1.6.275; 1.6.277-278). She does not
forget her Knight. She is loving, determined, and relentlessly faithful.
Pursuing Redcrosse, she travels far and wide, defying fear and
discouragement in her endless search for her Knight (1.2.64-65;
1.2.69-73; 1.3.19-27). Spenser writes, "With paines farre passing that
long wandring Greeke, / That for his love refused deitie; / Such were
the labours of his Lady meeke" (1.3.186-188). Like Odysseus, Una is
faithful to the one she loves and never gives up seeking him---even
though her pain is far greater than Odysseus'. Una is faithful and
relentless.

Una's good character is further illuminated by Duessa's evil character.
Duessa, too, seeks for her lost Knight. When she discovers that
Redcrosse is missing, she searches for him; however, her purposes are
far more sinister (1.7.10-18). Redcrosse is her "pray" \[prey; sic\]
(1.7.13). She is like a wild animal seeking a victim to devour. Una, on
the other hand, is motivated by love: "Was never Lady loved dearer day,
/ Then she did love the knight of the Redcrosse; / For whose deare sake
so many troubles her did tosse" (1.7.236-238). Love drives Una to face
fearful dangers and discouraging pains in search of her Knight
(1.2.479-480). She is not sitting around waiting for Redcrosse to
return; she takes action. Indeed, Una and Redcrosse only met because Una
took initiative: she left her home to find a Knight. Una is not a
powerless, cowardly woman who sits around and waits for men to do the
hard work. She leaves her home to seek a Knight who will fight the
dragon and save her family (1.7.401-409). When she loses the knight she
has come to love, she does not give up searching until she finds him.
Una is a shining example of faithfulness, love, and perseverance. Her
character is exemplary.

Furthermore, Redcrosse needs Una. Redcrosse's abandonment of Una is also
problematic because a Knight needs his Lady. A Lady has great power over
her Knight; he may be stronger than her physically, but when he grows
physically tired it is her encouragement that helps him find the courage
to press on. In book I of *The Faerie Queene*, Spenser shows how the
Lady's role is to encourage her Knight so that he wins his battles.
Una's encouragement saves Redcrosse's life. For example, in Redcrosse's
battle with Error, when his physical strength is fruitless against
Error's strong grasp, it is Una's encouragement that helps him recover
his courage and press on (1.1.160-162).

> His Lady sad to see his sore constraint,\
> Cride out, Now now Sir knight, shew what ye bee,\
> Add faith unto your force, and be not faint:\
> Strangle her, else she sure will strangle thee.\
> That when he heard, in great perplexitie,\
> His gall did grate for griefe and high disdaine,\
> And knitting all his force got one hand free,\
> Wherewith he grypt her gorge with so great paine,\
> That soone to loose her wicked bands did her constraine (1.2.163-172).

Una's encouragement is what enables Redcrosse to fight on to victory. If
not for her, he would have been defeated by Error. Redcrosse's role is
to keep Una physically safe, but she stirs up his courage and thereby
keeps him safe as well. Una encourages Redcrosse's soul, and by
extension defends his body.

Interestingly, even the false Duessa encourages Redcrosse. When it looks
like Sans Joy will defeat Redcrosse in battle, Duessa's voice
strengthens Redcrosse: "Soone as the Faerie heard his Ladie speake, /
Out of his swowning dreame he gan awake" (1.5.95-101). Redcrosse is
revived by his Lady's voice and by the remembrance that he must fight
for her (1.5.104). It gives him the courage to rise again. A Lady---even
a false Lady---can help her noble Knight to victory. A Lady's job is to
encourage her Knight to recall his God and draw upon his virtues so he
can defeat his enemy. Notably, Duessa encourages her giant but he does
not gain victory (1.8.177-189). He does not have any virtues to draw
upon, no courage hidden within, no God he worships and can seek aid
from. Thus, her encouragement can do him no good. Similarly, Una
encourages Archimago when he is dressed as Redcrosse, but he is also
defeated because he is unvirtuous (1.3.304-305; 1.3.307-315). An evil
Knight has no virtues to draw upon, so encouragement does him no good. A
good Knight has virtues to draw upon, and both a good Lady and a false
Lady can encourage him to do so. Without a Lady to encourage him,
however, a Knight may not draw upon the strength available to him, and
thus lose his battle. When Redcrosse faces the Giant, Duessa does not
encourage him, and the Giant defeats him (1.7.113-116). A Knight needs
his Lady. Both care for each other---perhaps in different ways, but they
both have a vital role in their relationship.

A Lady's role is also to advise her Knight. A Lady knows her Knight's
weaknesses and helps protect him from himself. The first words spoken in
book I are by Una, and they are a warning to Redcrosse. When they come
across the cave where Error dwells, Una advises Redcrosse not to enter:

> Be well aware, quoth then that Ladie milde,\
> Least suddaine mischiefe ye too rash provoke:\
> The danger hid, the place unknowne and wilde,\
> Breedes dreadfull doubts: Oft fire is without smoke,\
> And perill without show: therefore your stroke,\
> Sir Knight, with-hold, till further triall made (1.2.100-105).

Una knows her Knight has never yet fought in a battle, and that he is
eager to show his strength (1.2.5; 19-27). She wisely warns him to not
rush into a fight until he knows his enemy's strength. Still, Redcrosse
chooses to fight Error, and Una's encouragement enables him to defeat
his foe (1.2.159-172). After this battle with Error, she advises him to
rest before beginning a new battle. She reminds him, "for what so
strong, / But wanting rest will also want of might?" (1.2.285-286). She
counsels him to rest tonight and wait until morning to carry on with his
battles (1.2.289-290). Una understands Redcrosses's weaknesses and
encourages him to tend to them so that he can be ready for the next
battle. Women may need a man to protect them from evil men and beasts,
but a Knight needs his Lady to remind him of his frailty and encourage
him to rest.

Later, after saving Redcrosse from the Giant's prison, Una again
recognizes his exhaustion. She sees the "decayed plight, / And shrunken
synewes of her chosen knight," and chooses not to continue traveling
(1.9.175-177). She knows he is not ready for another battle
(1.9.178-180). Una keeps her Knight safe from conflicts he cannot win.
The most powerful example occurs in the cave of Despair. In the cave,
Redcrosse is driven so far to despair that he takes up a knife to kill
himself (1.9.451-459). Una has remained silent prior to this moment. She
is not overbearing. She respects her Knight, and only speaks up when his
very survival is threatened. Recognizing that the danger is too powerful
for Redcrosse to defeat, she removes him from the situation. Paolucci
says here, Una shows "her understanding of Red Cross's weakness, her
appreciation of his strength" (73). Una is both humble and wise. She
knows that her Knight is strong and has won several hard battles. Still,
she knows his weaknesses too and helps him overcome them. When Redcrosse
is on the verge of suicide, she takes his knife, both reprimanding him
and reminding him of his salvation. Then, she takes him away from danger
(1.9.463-478).

Una then brings Redcrosse to a place where he can be spiritually
transformed. After Redcrosse's struggle in the cave of Despair, Una
knows her Knight needs to be renewed spiritually. Her Knight is weary
and cannot continue on like this. He is "feeble, and too faint...unfit
for bloudy fight" and she seeks a place of rest for him (1.10.10-18).
Una takes Redcrosse to the House of Holinesse. Again, she contrasts
vividly with Duessa, who leads Redcrosse to a sinful house in canto IV.
Both women have the power to lead their Knight towards good or towards
evil. Una uses her wisdom and strength to bring Redcrosse to a refuge of
safety and encouragement. In the House of Holinesse, Una asks that
Redcrosse be taught by Fidelia and her family (1.10.156-159). Here,
Redcrosse not only rests and recovers from his battles, but he is
transformed into a new man (1.10.397-405). Una is wise enough to not
only understand Redcrosse's needs but also to recognize the solution.
Because of Una's intervention, Redcrosse is completely transformed. He
not only recovers from his wearying battles, but he is finally ready to
face the most difficult one yet: the dragon.

Despite all his growth,, the Knight is not strong enough to fight alone.
Though physically Redcrosse stands alone before the dragon, Una supports
him from afar. Una's encouragement and prayers sustain Redcrosse in his
battle. Once again Una encourages her Knight before he begins combat:
"The sparke of noble courage now awake, / And strive your excellent
selfe to excell" (1.11.15-16). She encourages him like she has done
before. Then, throughout Redcrosse's battle, she watches and prays.
Redcrosse struggles. He grows tired, he is injured, he is "Faint,
wearie, sore, emboyled, grieved, brent" (1.11.244). Una, meanwhile,
watches. When the day closes with her weary Knight falling into the
lifegiving well and the dragon flying away in triumph, "Great woe and
sorrow did her soule assay" (1.11.281). She spends the whole night
watching and praying:

> With folded hands and knees full lowly bent,\
> All night she watcht, ne once adowne would lay\
> Her daintie limbs in her sad dreriment,\
> But praying still did wake, and waking did lament (1.11.285-288).

Una refuses to lay down to rest, instead she prays for her Knight. When
Redcrosse is defeated a second time, "Againe she stricken was with sore
affright, / And for his safetie gan devoutly pray, / And watch the
noyous night, and wait for joyous day" (1.11.448-450). Una is burdened
by her Knight's pain and she labors in prayer on his behalf. She does
not sleep; she only watches and prays for her Knight's victory. Paolucci
suggests that these prayers bring Redcrosse back from the brink of death
each time he faces destruction (156). She writes, "Women prove to be
instruments of good through a capacity to concentrate will and hopes in
prayers for the well-being of others" (156). Una does not need to
physically help fight the dragon in order to save Redcrosse's life.
Motivated by her great love, the Lady assists her Knight from afar by
praying on his behalf. Una needs a Knight to save her family, and her
Redcrosse needs a Lady to pray for him. Neither Una nor Redcrosse can
fight their battles alone; they need each other.

Una is a shining example of the power of a woman to do good. Una often
proves her virtuous character and her ability to lead a man towards
greatness, so that it is no wonder that Paolucci compares Una to
Beatrice in *The Divine Comedy*. She describes them both as "moral
guides" (186). Caroline McManus calls Una a "mature godly woman" and
writes, "Readers of The Faerie Queene...may have seen, in fact, the
cultural ideal of the pious, faithful woman" (405-406). Una is an
example of how a Christian Lady can lead her Knight towards a holier
life. A woman who is strong in the faith has great potential in the life
of a Christian man. Paolucci further writes, "It may be said that the
ideal woman -- through the inspiration of love -- brings about a moral
regeneration" (152). Women may be physically weak in Spenser's *The
Faerie Queene*. However, that does not mean they are inferior to men.
Women have great potential for spiritual good in the lives of the men
around them, and are essential in the lives of their Knights.

Una is weak and vulnerable, and she needs someone to physically protect
her. A Lady needs her Knight. However, she is virtuous and strong in
character, and in fact surpasses Redcrosse on many occasions. She helps
make him a better man and encourages him to live well. Women have the
power to lead men towards good or towards evil, towards victory or
towards defeat. Una is not safe without her Knight---but neither is
Redcrosse. Alone, Una is vulnerable, while Redcrosse is deceived by the
false Duessa and defeated in battle. Spenser's *The Faerie Queene* is
not a power struggle between men and women but an example of the ideal,
balanced relationship in which each protects the other. A Lady needs her
Knight, and a Knight needs his Lady. If this is the view of the sexes
that Spenser has passed down to the modern world, then he should be
thoroughly thanked.

## Works Cited

- Frye, Susan. "Of Chastity and Violence: Elizabeth I and Edmund Spenser
in the House of Busirane." *Signs*, Vol. 20, No. 1, Autumn 1994, pp.
49-78.

- Frye, Susan. *Elizabeth I: The Competition for Representation*. Oxford
University Press, 1993.

- McManus, Caroline. "The 'carefull Nourse': Female Piety in Spenser's
Legend of Holiness." *Huntington Library Quarterly*, Vol. 60, No. 4,
1997, pp. 381-406.

- Paolucci, Anne. *The Women in Dante's Divine Comedy and Spenser's Faerie
Queene*. Griffon House Publications, 2005.

- Schofield, William. *Chivalry in English Literature: Chaucer, Malory,
Spenser and Shakespeare*. The Merrymount Press, 1912.

- Spenser, Edmund. *The Faerie Queene: Book I*. Project Gutenberg, 2005.
Retrieved November 18, 2023, from
[www.gutenberg.org/files/15272/15272-h/15272-h.htm\#canto_VII](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/15272/15272-h/15272-h.htm#canto_VII).
