---
title: "God's Justice and the Poet's Tears "
name: Aiden
surname: Piercy
authordescription: "Aiden Piercy is a freshman at Patrick Henry College."
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/4/3/god-s-justice-poet-s-tears/"
---

Dante's *Inferno* offers a vivid picture of God's judgment against sin
as well as insightful commentary on a proper Christian conception of
justice and divine punishment. As Virgil guides his timid companion
through the circles of Hell, Dante experiences an array of emotions as
he observes the souls tormented in various displays of poetic justice.
The most prominent and puzzling of Dante's emotions is his pity. At
first, Dante's pity seems to contradict his affirmation of God's just
judgment, and Virgil's chastisement might cause the reader to dismiss
Dante's emotion as moral weakness. However, a closer examination of
Dante's pity reveals a deeper lesson behind the poet's tears. Dante's
pity is an appropriate expression of grief over the distortion of God's
image in the shades of Hell, a divine distinction that remains apparent
even in their eternal torment. 

The various punishments of the *Inferno* affirm the presence of God's
image in the condemned souls, albeit grossly distorted. This reality is
best demonstrated by Dante's reaction to the twisted state of the
sorcerers in the eighth circle. "Think if I could be left dry-eyed,"
implores Dante, "when close before me I had seen our image so distorted,
so bereft of dignity" ( Canto XX). The physical deformity of the
sorcerers acts as a tangible depiction of their sinful desire to subvert
God's created order through their practice of divination. Yet, despite
their hideous condition, Dante recognizes that the sorcerers' humanity
is present even in their deformity. This vestige of their former honor
as God's image bearers only serves to heighten the pain and indignity of
their punishment in Hell. The deformity of the shades in Hell
demonstrates the damage done to God's image in humanity through sin, and
the resulting hideousness of these mutinous image-bearers causes Dante
to burst into tears.  

Virgil's firm rebuke cautions Dante against allowing his sadness to
develop into sympathy towards the suffering shades, declaring that in
Hell either "pity or . . . piety must die" ( Canto XX). Virgil denounces
an inappropriate expression of sympathy toward Hell's sufferers as human
emotion "agonized by God's high equity" ( Canto XX). The absence of a
penitent response from Dante suggests that Virgil's words are not an
absolute injunction against his sadness. Rather, Virgil's scolding
cautions his charge against allowing his emotions to undermine God's
justice in His punishment of sin. The *Inferno* does not portray Hell as
a repository of God's vindictive wrath but as a necessary penalty for
humanity's unrepentant rebellion. This reality leaves no room for
sympathy towards Hell's sufferers, whom the inscription above the gates
of Hell commands to "lay down all hope, you that go in by me" (Canto
III). Similarly, upon entering Hell, Virgil calls Dante to lay aside any
doubts concerning the justice of God's judgment. Through his
subterranean pilgrimage, Dante learns to submit his emotions to God's
righteous decrees.  

Dante's development in his acceptance of divine justice is demonstrated
by his contempt towards the rebellious nature of Hell's condemned souls.
The earliest expression of Dante's contempt occurs in his exchange with
Fillipo Argentini. During his brief interaction with Dante, Fillipo
appeals to Dante's sympathy towards his suffering. Dante's impassioned
response is a jarring testament to his opinion of Fillipo's condition,
"Amid the weeping and the woe . . . do thou remain and rot" ( Canto
VIII). Dante's cruel epithet demonstrates that the Christian's emotion
ought never to belittle the justice of God's punishment. Virgil's praise
in the following lines emphasizes the importance of Dante's response in
his development of a proper estimation of sin. Dante has grown since his
fearful encounter with the three beasts in the woods, and his contempt
towards the stubborn unrepentance of Hell's sufferers is an essential
component of his hatred for the perverting nature of sin. 

Despite his biting words to the wrathful Fillipo, Dante's contempt is
accompanied by an honest confession of his own sinful tendencies.
Dante's spiritual struggle is pictured in his encounter with the
Leopard, the Lion, and the She-Wolf in the dark forest in the opening
pages of his comedy. This event serves both as a motivation for Dante's
divine journey as well as a literary rationale for the structure of the
*Inferno.* As Dante descends the successive circles of Hell, he
witnesses sequentially the punishment of the three vices he himself has
so narrowly escaped. Dante is no passive observer but recognizes the
sins punished in each of Hell's circles as weaknesses in his own life.
Thus, the poet's sadness over the grisly nature of sin is exacerbated by
his personal failings, and in an outpouring of empathy, Dante protests,
"Why must our guilt smite us with strokes like these?" ( Canto VII). By
relating himself to Hell's sufferers, Dante offers a striking
affirmation of the powers of sin at work in believers and unbelievers
alike. This painful reality fuels his sorrow over the degrading nature
of sin on the human soul and the guilt of all believers in desecrating
their Creator's image. 

Dante's pity is not without biblical support. Jesus also expressed
sadness over the destructive effects of sin. After rebuking the
hypocrisy of the religious leaders in Matthew 23, Jesus laments the
stubborn rebellion of the Israelite people that would lead to their
ruin. Jesus's seven woes to the scribes and Pharisees earlier in the
chapter attest to the obstinate disobedience that had characterized
God's people from the very beginning. Though Israel is deserving of
punishment, Jesus weeps over the necessary destruction of God's chosen
nation. In the same way, Dante mourns over the consequences of sin while
affirming the just judgment of God. The poet's ringing affirmation,
"God's justice!" is mingled with tears over the necessary destruction of
God's special creation. 

Dante's pity does not stem from sympathy toward Hell's sufferers but
from sadness over Hell's degradation of the human image designed to
reflect God's glory. This truth is essential in understanding Dante's
spiritual development throughout the *Inferno*, as well as its practical
application to the Christian life. Dante's grief over the deformities of
Hell is informed by his personal experience with the blatant corruption
that had pervaded his own city of Florence and led his exile. The
ubiquitous corruption of the *Inferno* is not an anomaly of Hell, but an
universal reality Christians must face in a fallen world. Dante's
affirmation of the inescapable reality of corruption is accompanied by
vivid depictions of sin's abhorrent nature and the destruction it wreaks
on God's image bearers. Christians are not immune to this corruption,
and Dante's developing contempt against sin throughout the *Inferno* is
a moving representation of the believer's struggle to repress the
rebellious tendencies that plague their own lives. The dual themes of
pity and contempt are essential aspects of Dante's spiritual
development, and both emotions justify his tearful lament among the
twisted figures of Hell's sufferers.    

## Works Cited 

- Alighieri, Dante. *The Divine Comedy: Hell,* trans. Dorothy Sayers.
1949; Penguin Books. 