---
name: Abbie
surname: Mourey
title: "The Redemption of Courtly Love: Danteâ€™s Use of Courtly Love Tropes"
authordescription: "Abbie is a junior Literature major at Patrick Henry College."
tags: ["web exclusive"]
permalink: "/4/3/redemption-courtly-love/"
---
Dante Alighieri's *Divine Comedy* is rife with the themes of redemption
and love. These themes are most clearly seen in Dante's redemption from
sin, hell, and death through Christ's redeeming death and resurrection.
However, the main conduit of redemption and love comes in the person of
Beatrice and Dante's relationship to her. During Dante's time, the
popular genre of courtly love poetry depicted love as an adulterous
relationship. Although Dante uses these same courtly love tropes, he
transforms them. Instead of portraying love as a mostly earthly, sensual
experience, Dante portrays love as the means of redemption for the lost
soul. It is this true understanding of love expressed through Beatrice
that brings Dante to heaven.

In his article, "The Meaning of Courtly Love," Herbert Moller gives an
excellent overview of the courtly love genre. Moller explains that the
key characteristic of courtly love poetry "is the poet's preoccupation
with the amorous cult of a lady who is venerated as the sovereign of all
his thoughts, feelings, and actions."[^1] In examining the odd reality
and psychology of the courtly love poets, Moller notes that courtly love
poets, or "troubadours," made married women the objects of their
desire.[^2] However, the relationship between the troubadour and the
beloved was never to be sexually sealed.[^3] Though the relationship
between the troubadour and the object of his love was romantic, it "was
not Platonic."[^4] Sometimes the subject of the poem was not even a real
person, merely a product of the artist's fancy.[^5] Whether the woman
was real or not, she was usually a married woman, making the
relationship between the poet and the creation seem adulterous.

Moller also discusses the contemporary view of courtly love poetry and
its psychological oddities. One such peculiarity of the courtly love
genre is how the lover often depicts himself in an "infantile"
state.[^6] The lover cannot eat or sleep without the presence or
acknowledgement of the beloved, and there are even troubadour poems that
compare the glance of the beloved to a "birch," which would have been
used to spank a child.[^7] The cultural reception of this unique poetry
was mixed. As Moller points out, "The sense of possessiveness of
medieval husbands was never wakened by troubadour notions."[^8]
Additionally, there were many illegitimate children during the Middle
Ages; however, this phenomenon was present before the advent of the
courtly love narratives.[^9] Thus, there is no perceivable direct
connection between courtly love poems and an increase in adulterous
relationships.

While courtly love poetry was popular and encouraged by royalty like
Eleanor of Aquitaine, there were prominent dissenters, Dante being among
their numbers.[^10] Christine de Pizan, a noblewoman raised in the court
of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, wrote against courtly love poetry
almost a hundred years after Dante's *Vita Nuova* and the *Divine
Comedy*.[^11] Christine's critique of courtly love poetry was
well-received during her time, and she claimed that the genre encouraged
adultery.[^12] Dante would have agreed with Christine's opinion on the
courtly love genre. According to a scene in his *Inferno*, he clearly
viewed courtly love as a dangerous genre. In the second circle of hell,
Dante tells the story of Paolo and Francesca, an aristocratic couple who
had an affair inspired by their reading of the Arthurian stories of
Lancelot and Guinevere.[^13] Dante directly connects Paolo and
Francesca's affair to their reading of courtly love poetry. Francesca
tells Dante, "We read of the smile, desired of lips long-thwarted, /
Such smile, by such a lover kissed away, / He that may never more from
me be parted."[^14]

While Dante wrote against courtly love poetry in both the *Divine
Comedy* and other works such as the *Vita Nuova*, there are numerous
similarities between Dante's own life and his work that reflect the
tropes of courtly love poetry. These overlaps are best seen in the role
of Beatrice in the *Divine Comedy*. Beatrice is for Dante the woman he
is "preoccupied with."[^15] She is the center of "the amorous cult of a
lady who is venerated as the sovereign of all his thoughts, feelings,
and actions."[^16] Dante's real-life relationship with Beatrice also
mirrored the courtly love scenario. According to Dorothy L. Sayers'
introduction to *Inferno*, Dante met Beatrice when he was very young,
and, after seeing her, he knew God's love was real.[^17] Beatrice was
the "God-bearing image" for Dante; she was part of his salvation
experience.[^18] While the troubadours did not pay much attention to
spiritual components of love, Dante still imitates their style through
his intense love for and focus on Beatrice.

Examining Dante's real-life love of Beatrice aids in understanding his
redemption of courtly love plot devices. Dante had a romantic attachment
to Beatrice. His experience upon first seeing Beatrice could justly be
called "love at first sight."[^19] Yet, Dante also describes their love
as "chaste," in a way reminiscent of a troubadour's love for his
beloved.[^20] The fictional Beatrice, "Remains in the story what she was
in real life."[^21] Beatrice appears like the unattainable beloved as
Dante travels throughout hell and purgatory. She remains at the
forefront of Dante's mind as he travels with Virgil, but she is far from
him, quite literally above him.

However, unlike both the real-life Beatrice and most objects of love in
courtly love poetry, Beatrice sends for Dante.[^22] He begins his
journey through hell, purgatory, and heaven because Beatrice calls him
forth.[^23] Beatrice tells Virgil that it was "love that first moved"
her to send for Dante.[^24] At the beginning of the comedy, Dante is
going through a dark night of the soul. He literally finds himself "in a
dark wood / Where the right way was wholly lost and gone."[^25] Dante
has forgotten the devotion he owed to Beatrice as the conduit of God's
love to him.[^26]

Beatrice's desire to reach Dante, to save him, is part of how Dante
redeems the courtly love narrative. Whereas the lady of court is
capricious and ambivalent to her lover, Beatrice earnestly wants Dante
to be saved. Mother Mary sends for Saint Lucy, out of her compassion for
Dante. Lucy approaches Beatrice and entreats her thus, "How now, how
now, Beatrice, God's true praise! / No help for him who once thy
liegeman was, / Quitting the common herd to win thy grace?"[^27] The
term "liegeman" is a direct reference to the courtly love emphasis on
the chivalric oaths of fealty. This language reflects Dante's admiration
of the elements of honor that were central to the courtly love
narrative. For Dante, earthly, romantic love and heavenly, eternal love
ideally work together.[^28] Perhaps it is best to think of love for
Dante the same way St. Paul explains knowledge in 1 Corinthians 15:46,
"The spiritual did not come first, but the natural, and after that the
spiritual" (NIV). Romantic love helped Dante understand spiritual love,
and ultimately led him to understand Christ's love.

Another element of Dante's life and writings that reflects a prominent
courtly love trope is the fact that Beatrice in real life ended up
marrying another man.[^29] Dante, then, seems to be paying court to a
woman who is married, though he himself clearly believes this aspect of
courtly love poetry is wrong. To explain this apparent discrepancy, it
might be helpful to remember that courtly love was not spiritual in
nature. If anything, courtly love was an odd perversion of Marian
devotion. Dante seems to touch on this facet of the genre in his use of
the poet and saint, Bernard of Clairvaux in *Paradiso.* Clairvaux was an
early Medieval monastic who himself redeemed the courtly love style in
his poetry devoted to Mary. Dante interacts with Bernard toward the end
of the *Paradiso* and sees how Bernard is a chivalric knight to Mary, as
Dante endeavored to be to Beatrice.[^30] The focus on the maternal in
courtly love poetry explains how the genre could be altered to venerate
the Virgin Mary. While Dante's love for Beatrice in some respects
matches the love of the troubadours for their ladies, he frames his love
in a much more spiritual light than the troubadours.

It is also important to note that Beatrice, though a central figure in
Dante's salvation story, is eventually no longer at the center of
events. Beatrice, who could be described as "the means of grace" to
Dante, is no longer needed since "the perfect has come" (1 Corinthians
13:10).[^31] When Dante enters into the Holy of Holies, Beatrice returns
to her eternal place beside the other mothers of the faith.[^32] For the
troubadour, the beloved is ever before his eyes--her presence is the
holiest, it is the ultimate perfection. Even with Dante's heavy focus on
Beatrice, he is careful to remind himself and the reader of her place in
the story. She has great influence, but it is first God, then Mary, and
finally Lucy who sends for Dante.[^33] It is also telling that Dante has
forgotten Beatrice, a representation of his faith, and therefore must go
on his journey through the spiritual world.[^34] A troubadour would not
have forgotten his beloved. Beatrice serves as a heavenly
Virgil---supremely important, but incapable of fulfilling what Christ
and His love can do for Dante. If Virgil represents "the best of all
human wisdom," then Beatrice represents the best of spiritual
wisdom.[^35] Both human and spiritual wisdom fall short in imperfect
human vessels. A soul must see Christ to attain perfect reason and
theology.

Another key way that Dante uses the courtly love framework for his
*Comedy* is the story's epic and quest-like nature. Dante follows many
literary traditions put forth by the Greeks and Romans in their epics.
Dante's journey through the underworld is seen in his literary hero and
companion, Virgil's *Aeneid*, and in several other Greco-Roman myths.
His journey also reflects the courtly love clichÃ© that the troubadour
must do a grand deed for the woman he loves to win her approval. This
component of courtly love poetry is seen in the now stereotypical
storyline of the knight in shining armor saving the damsel in distress.
While Dante is not saving Beatrice in his *Comedy*, he is acting as a
sort of knight, trying to prove that he is worthy of his lady's love via
his quest through the underworld and heavenlies.

Another, more subtle, evidence that Dante tries to redeem courtly love
is through his brief use of roses as symbols. Firstly, Dante portrays
one of the heavenly spheres as a "celestial rose."[^36] This rose houses
some of the most precious saints, such as the Holy Innocents, John the
Baptist, and of course Beatrice.[^37] This rose represents the highest
level of holiness humans can achieve. In addition to this metaphor,
Dante places Mary at the top of this rose.[^38] Mary epitomizes the
pinnacle of female chastity and virtue. These qualities of Dante's rose
are in direct contrast to the best-known courtly love poem of the
period, *The Romance of the Rose*. *The Romance of the Rose* is the
courtly love poem Christine de Pizan wrote against in her treatise,
*Letter to the God of Love*.[^39] *The Romance* was a type of guide to
young courtiers about how to seduce their lovers.[^40] As scholar Sarah
Lawson points out in her introduction to Christine's *Treasure*, this
poem also contains "a pronounced element of misogyny."[^41] This low
view of women is clearly incompatible with Dante's veneration of both
Mary and Beatrice, as well as the other biblical and historical women
Dante so clearly respects in his works.[^42] The beauty and holiness of
Dante's rose is held up as a model of particularly female Christian
virtue. While it is not known whether Dante intentionally used the image
of the rose to comment on *The Romance*, the connection is certainly
there and should be seen as part of the poet's response to the
immorality of *The Romance of the Rose*.

Dante Alighieri's works, specifically the *Divine Comedy*, reflect his
potent belief in the power and importance of love. Dante's life imitated
some of the core tenants of the courtly love genre, which appear
throughout his *Comedy*. While Dante did not endorse the adulterous
elements of this genre, and believed such literature could encourage
adultery, he also used the genre to describe holy love. Dante saw
earthly love as a step to holy love, and by this view he redeemed
courtly, earthly love to the heights of heavenly, holy love. Dante saw
the need for earthly conduits of heavenly love and used Beatrice as an
effective example of earthly love leading to spiritual love. For Dante,
earthly love which does not lead to heavenly love was lacking and
ultimately led to dissatisfaction and damnation.

## Bibliography

- Alighieri, Dante. *The Divine Comedy: Hell*. London: Penguin Classics,
1949.

 ---------. *The Divine Comedy: Purgatorio.* London: Penguin Classics,
1955.

- ---------. *The Divine Comedy: Paradiso*. London: Penguin Classics,
1961.

- Bayer, Roberta. "Inferno: Dante." Lecture, Patrick Henry College,
Purcellville, VA, September 22, 2023.

- ---------. "Canto IV: Purgatory." Lecture, Patrick Henry College,
Purcellville, VA, October 6, 2023.

- ---------. "Dante: Paradise." Lecture, Patrick Henry College,
Purcellville, VA, November 29, 2023.

- De Pizan, Christine. *The Treasure of the City of Ladies*. London:
Penguin Classics, 2003.

- Episcopal Church. *The Book of Common Prayer and Administration of the
Sacraments and Other Rites and Ceremonies of the Church According to the
Use of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of America*.
New York: The Church Hymnal Corporation, 1945.

- Moller, Herbert. "The Meaning of Courtly Love." *The Journal of American
Folklore* 73, no. 287 (Jan.--March 1960): 39--52.
[https://doi.org/10.2307/537601](https://doi.org/10.2307/537601).





[^1]: Herbert Moller, "The Meaning of Courtly Love," *The Journal of American Folklore* 73, no. 287 (Jan--March, 1960): 40, [https://doi.org/10.2307/537601](https://doi.org/10.2307/537601).

[^2]: Ibid.

[^3]: Ibid.

[^4]: Ibid.

[^5]: Moller, "The Meaning of Courtly Love," 40--41.

[^6]: Ibid.

[^7]: Ibid., 43.

[^8]: Ibid., 40.

[^9]: Ibid.

[^10]: Ibid.

[^11]: Christine de Pizan, *The Treasure of the City of Ladies* (London: Penguin Classics, 2003), xix.

[^12]: De Pizan, *Treasure*, xix.

[^13]: Dante, *The Divine Comedy: Hell* (London, Penguin Classics, 1949), Canto V, ll. 136--138.

[^14]: Ibid., ll. 133--135.

[^15]: Moller, "The Meaning of Courtly Love," 40.

[^16]: Ibid.

[^17]: Dante, *Hell*, 28.

[^18]: Ibid.

[^19]: Dante, *Hell*, 67.

[^20]: Roberta Bayer, "Inferno: Dante" (lecture, Patrick Henry College, Purcellville, VA, September 22, 2023).

[^21]: Dante, *Hell*, 67.

[^22]: Dante, *Hell*, Canto II, ll. 53--126.

[^23]: Ibid., ll. 78--82.

[^24]: Ibid., l. 71.

[^25]: Ibid., Canto I, ll.2--3.

[^26]: Roberta Bayer, "Dante: Paradise" (lecture, Patrick Henry College, Purcellville, VA, November 29, 2023).

[^27]: Dante, *Hell*, Canto II, ll.103--105.

[^28]: Bayer, "Dante: Paradise."

[^29]: Dante, *Hell*, 27.

[^30]: Bayer, "Dante: Paradise."

[^31]: The Protestant Episcopal Church, *The Book of Common Prayer and Administration of the Sacraments and Other Rites and Ceremonies of the Church According to the Use of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of America* (New York: The Church Hymnal Corporation, 1945), 33.

[^32]: Dante, *Divine Comedy: Paradise* (London: Penguin Classics, 1962), 331.

[^33]: Dante, *Hell*, Canto II, ll. 53--138.

[^34]: Bayer, "Dante: Paradise."

[^35]: Roberta Bayer, "Canto IV: Purgatory" (lecture, Patrick Henry College, Purcellville, VA, October 6, 2023).

[^36]: Dante, *Paradise*, 323.

[^37]: Ibid.

[^38]: Ibid.

[^39]: De Pizan, *Treasure*, xix.

[^40]: Ibid.

[^41]: Ibid.

[^42]: Dante, *Paradise*, 323.
