---
title: "From Stone to Flesh: The Gospel According to Shakespeare"
name: Bethany
surname: Kawalec
authordescription: "Bethany is a senior Literature major at Patrick Henry College"
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/4/3/stone-to-flesh-shakespeare/"
description: "This paper discusses how William Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale shows gospel themes."
---
If someone mentions William Shakespeare, *The Winter's Tale* may not be
the first play that springs to mind. However, this more obscure play is
one of Shakespeare's finest. Central to appreciating the beauty of the
play is understanding how the Christian Gospel shines through in every
aspect. The narrative structure itself mirrors elements of the Biblical
redemption arc, starting with a fall and ending with restoration. Common
literary motifs such as sleep as a symbol for death receive a distinctly
Christian slant. Moreover, the characters are not merely Shakespearean
archetypes but also Biblical archetypes. Anchoring the main theme of
redemption, King Leontes of Sicilia is a remorseful sinner, while his
daughter, Perdita, and wife, Hermione, embody sacrifice and forgiveness.
As in the Gospel, the play ends with a twist involving a resurrection.
This unexpected, dramatic scene has produced fierce debate among
literary critics: is the resurrection genuine, or just a clever trick?
However, it is clear that the most logical reading is that the
resurrection is a real one. Such an interpretation is in line with what
Shakespeare, as a Christian author writing to a still largely Christian
world, likely would have intended. Indeed, although Shakespeare was not
writing an allegory, he filled *The* *Winter's Tale* with so much
Biblical imagery and interweaves the Gospel so much into its structure,
themes, and characters that the real beauty of the story hinges on the
authenticity of the resurrection.

The structure of *The* *Winter's Tale* mirrors the broad structure
present in the Scriptural account of mankind's fall and redemption.
Although not every character in *The Winter's Tale* has a one-to-one
correspondence with a Biblical character or symbol, the characters do
illustrate certain Biblical principles and elements of the Gospel. Just
like Adam in the Bible, Leontes falls from grace. Leontes possesses a
fatal flaw---jealousy---which sets the events of the play in motion.
When the play opens, Leontes is attempting to convince his best friend,
Polixenes, king of Bohemia, to extend his visit. Polixenes declines, but
Hermione convinces him to change his mind. Surprised at how easily she
succeeds, Leontes grows jealous and suspects Polixenes and Hermione of
having an affair. His suspicion morphs into obsession and his obsession
into mania. Leontes' descent due to the corrupting nature of his
jealousy mirrors that of other tragic Shakespearean characters. King
Lear, for example, disinherits his daughter, Cordelia, for refusing to
shower him with lavish declarations of love, and Macbeth, jealous of the
throne, murders the king.

The all-consuming, rapidly corrupting nature of Leontes' jealousy bears
similarities to the swift corruption of mankind. Critic Harold Bloom
calls Leontes "Shakespeare's most frightening study of paranoid sexual
jealousy" because his jealousy erupts so utterly without warning (ix).
Another Shakespeare scholar, Charles Clark, describes Leontes' jealousy
as not "cautiously and gradually introduced, artfully developed, fanned,
heightened, and exasperated to its awful climax...but it bursts forth at
once with a sudden explosion" (41). Unlike Macbeth, Leontes wastes no
time in brooding indecisiveness, nor does he show any prior indication
of jealousy the way King Leer shows his weakness for flattery. Instead,
Leontes is rash and full of rage. He condemns Hermione immediately.
Before any kind of fair hearing, he imprisons her, even though she is
pregnant with their second child, treats his firstborn son coldly, and
commands his newborn daughter be abandoned to die of exposure. He
refuses to believe in Hermione's innocence, despite the oracle's later
proclamation of her chastity. In the Biblical narrative, the fallout
from Adam and Eve's sin sets in rapidly: they are expelled from the
garden, the ground is cursed, and one of their sons murders the other.
The consequences of Leontes' envy land with devastating speed,
destroying his relationship with his family just as Adam and Eve's
disobedience destroys the harmony in their relationships with God and
with their family.

Leontes' family certainly suffers because of his actions. Describing the
melodramatic tragic tone that characterizes many of Shakespeare's plays,
T. S. Eliot explains that "underneath the resolute purpose of the
planning animal \[is\] the victim of circumstance and the doomed or
sanctified being" (x). In a tragedy, innocent victims suffer because of
the actions of the protagonist. Sometimes the victims are merely
collateral damage whose deaths seem pointless. Their only purpose is to
illustrate the senselessness and unnecessary pain resulting from the
protagonist's fall. Mamillius, Leontes' little boy, is this kind of
victim. Devastated by seeing his mother treated so cruelly, Mamillius
dies shortly after their separation and is never discussed again.
Perdita nearly suffers the same fate. She escapes, since an uncouth but
kindly shepherd finds her and raises her as his own. Nevertheless, she
is deprived of the chance to know her natural parents and to live in
luxury as a king's daughter. Although still a victim in one sense,
Perdita comes to fulfill a more salvific role than Mamillius. Hermione
suffers the most at Leontes' hands: she endures cutting accusations and
imprisonment, and when she hears the news of her son's death and
daughter's abandonment, she collapses and dies. The very intensity of
Hermione's pain makes her the epitome of the "sanctified being" who
later comes to fulfill the most explicitly Christ-like role. The gods,
through the oracle, proclaim Hermione to be chaste, and her suffering
refines her and highlights her courage and her purity.

Roughly halfway through, the style of the play changes to comedy. After
Time (quite literally a character) narrates the passage of sixteen
years, the play contains numerous indications of a lighter tone. The
next scene opens on Perdita, her makeshift family, and her friends
celebrating the harvest---a time associated with joy and abundance. The
crass jokes, almost completely absent in the tragic part of the play,
fly thick and fast here. Comedic characters appear, too. The Shepherd's
son, nicknamed Clown, flirts and chases skirts, and the sticky-fingered
scoundrel, Autolycus, picks pockets and performs bawdy songs to amuse
the guests. Mistaken identity, another a common trope in Shakespearean
comedies, also marks the transition in tone. Prince Florizel of Bohemia
attends the feast, disguised as a peasant. Displeased that his son is
wooing a lowly peasant girl, Polixenes, along with his nobleman,
Camillo, disguise themselves as the feast as well. Another hallmark of
comedy, the characters quickly overcome any adversity and setbacks. For
example, when Polixenes sheds his disguise and forbids Florizel's and
Perdita's marriage, Camillo promptly finds a solution. He urges them to
marry in secret, pretend to be on a diplomatic mission from Bohemia, and
present themselves to the now remorseful Leontes. The plan works.
Leontes, thrilled to hear news from the son of his former friend,
accepts the couple. Even when Polixenes pursues his son and so blows
Florizel's cover, Leontes rushes to reconcile with his friend.
Misunderstandings are set right: Leontes discovers Perdita's true
identity and welcomes her back, Perdita forgives her father, and
Polixenes and Florizel reconcile, as do Leontes and Polixenes. Later,
they all adjourn to the house of Paulina, a lady of the court who was
Hermione's friend, to see her statue of Hermione. Leontes is overwhelmed
with grief, and, to his amazement, the statue comes to life before their
eyes. Hermione is restored to life, and she forgives the king.
Characteristic of many of Shakespeare's comedies, the play ends with the
promise of weddings and celebrations. Florizel and Perdita are married,
Leontes is restored to his wife, and the minor characters of Camillo and
Paulina are pledged in marriage to each other. Even Autolycus promises
to reform.

Some critics have denounced the sudden pivot as sloppy writing. Arthur
Quiller-Couch, a prominent twentieth century critic, refutes these
claims of his fellow critics. Instead, Quiller-Couch states, "In a world
where Nature mixes comedy with tragedy and often shades one into the
other indistinguishably, Art, if she be Nature's mirror--as Shakespeare
held--must always be impatient of hard definitions" (63). Life is filled
with both suffering and joy. Consequently, if the goal of poetry is to
better illuminate reality, then Shakespeare's blending of tragedy and
comedy is further proof of his brilliance. Even more importantly, the
shift in tone better reflects the Scriptural fall and redemption arc.

Leontes\' fall mirrors the Biblical account of mankind's fall from
grace. Leontes' overweening jealousy and pride shatter the peace of his
court and his harmonious relationship with his wife. Just as the law,
although itself good and necessary, brings no release from sin, so the
truth the oracle speaks, declaring Hermione (and Polixenes) blameless,
brings Leontes no relief. At first, he merely becomes enraged. Then the
deaths of his wife and son rouse him from his stubbornness and overwhelm
him with guilt. The law is death to the sinner, and the oracle death to
Leontes. Of course, Leontes does not literally die, but his tormented
conscience does not permit him to rest. Sleep and death have long shared
a connection in Shakespeare's works. The article, "Sleep and Death: The
Twins of Shakespeare," explains, "sleep serves as a mediating factor in
the antithesis of life and death: 'in the midst of life we are in
death.' It is exactly this paradox implicit in the idea of sleep---its
points of contact with both life and death---which is at once
theatrically and rhetorically exploited in Romeo and Juliet and in
Macbeth" (Viswanathan 50-51). Influenced by classical and biblical
imagery, Shakespeare uses sleep not merely as a stand-in for death but
also as an interface between death and life. Sleep is the state that
most resembles death but can be nourishing and restorative. Hence,
Shakespeare uses the image of sleep in two different ways: it is the
life-giving rest which Leontes' tormented conscience deprives him of,
and it is the tortured, restless, nightmare-ridden state representing
death---the eternal sleep that brings no rest for the wicked. Once he
recognizes the enormity of his sin, Leontes is filled with remorse. He
spends the next sixteen years mourning and trying to atone.

Perdita serves as a Christ-figure who embodies Leontes' hope of
redemption. The oracle prophesies that Leontes can receive absolution
only if the child he abandoned is discovered. Perdita is not divine, and
her redemptive role is much smaller than Christ's. Nevertheless, the
parallels are too many to be coincidence: a promised child who is the
only hope of redemption, forced to flee those who would kill her as a
baby, innocent and unstained by the sin of one of her parents and able
to redeem the other. Perdita does not die, but her separation from him
plays a similar role. He believes she has died and is remorseful. Only
her return and willingness to extend unconditional love and forgiveness
to Leontes, despite his cruel treatment of her, makes reconciliation
possible.

The character who shines the most as a literary Christ-type is Hermione.
She is the innocent victim whose death and resurrection bring
redemption. "An eye for an eye," the law demands, and Leontes bears
responsibility for the death of his son and the abandonment of his own
daughter to die. It is Leontes whose heart is stone-cold, he who
deserves death. Yet Hermione is the one who dies instead. Her death
serves as the catalyst for Leontes' remorse, but remorse alone cannot
bring healing. Only through her resurrection is Leontes' true repentance
and restoration possible. Indeed, as with Christ Himself, the
significance of her salvific role revolves around the question of
Hermione's resurrection.

Whether her resurrection was genuine or merely an illusion is integral
to how one interprets the play. The audience never actually sees
Hermione die (Paulina relays news of her death to the king.) Shakespeare
deliberately leaves the issue ambiguous. One interpretation posits that
Hermione was really alive but sequestered at Paulina's house. This would
explain Paulina's aversion to the idea of Leontes remarrying and to his
touching the "statue," since he would discover the ruse too soon.
However, believing Hermione was alive but in hiding raises more
questions than it answers. How had she kept her presence a secret? Would
Hermione really stay indoors in the same house for well over a decade?
Perhaps she had wanted to see if Leontes had truly repented, but waiting
a full sixteen years while her husband lives in agony seems excessive.
Was she being vindictive? If so, it certainly robs her return of beauty
and mars her standing as an innocent sacrifice. Besides, vindictiveness
seems to cut against her character. Even when Leontes treats her
cruelly, she only presents an eloquent defense of herself and never
returns his cruelty in kind.

Ultimately, the simplest explanation is that Hermione did die and was
resurrected through a miracle. Statues do not normally come to life, of
course, so this answer may rankle at first with a modern audience
steeped in materialism and naturalism. At the very least, the
explanation may appear too convenient. However, in light of the kind of
world Shakespeare has already established for his characters---one with
prophecies, deities, and oracles---resurrection becomes possible.
Probable it is not, or else the characters would not marvel when
Hermione's likeness springs to life, but possible, yes. Critic Paul
Gleed explains of the central importance of Hermione's resurrection:

> This is yet another episode from the play that riled critics for
> centuries. Many found the idea to be ludicrous that Hermione might
> play dead, hide in Paulina's house for sixteen years while Leontes
> pitifully lamented his errors, finally emerging in a gimmicky,
> stage-managed event. If the debate centers solely on realism and
> plausibility, of course, the scene is all but indefensible in that
> regard. But Shakespeare indicates in the scene that we should not be
> thinking in those precise terms. The predictions of the oracle, the
> appearance of Time onstage, and removing the play's action to the
> festive and pastoral world of Bohemia all strongly indicate that the
> play has abandoned the language of realism in search of other
> aesthetic discourses through which human life may be explored. (Gleed
> 17)

In short, Shakespeare is not interested in depicting the ordinary or the
realistic but instead in illustrating the deeper truth behind the usual
realities. He sees no need to explain away Hermione's resurrection as a
trick, nor is the literal resurrection he presents a *deus ex machina*.
Rather, he is illustrating the power of divine grace that makes
redemption possible. Hermione is restored to Leontes, not because he
deserves it, but because the gods have deigned to offer him another
chance. The fact that the divinities are pagan ones does not matter
here. Shakespeare still portrays the beauty of the true redemption
through his fictional play set in the ancient pagan world.

Therefore, although *The Winter's Tale* is not an allegory for the
Gospel, the Gospel imagery and themes are inextricable from
Shakespeare's play, which, like the Gospel, hinges on the resurrection
of the redeemer. Like the Biblical redemption arc, the play begins with
tragedy and ends with the promise of a wedding. The pattern of fall and
redemption is everywhere. The apostle Paul tells the church that,
without Christ's resurrection, we are to be of all men most pitied (1
Cor. 15:19). Likewise, Leontes should also be most pitied if his wife
were not truly resurrected. Once life fills Hermione's stone limbs and
heart, however, Leontes receives another chance as his wife extends
forgiveness and grace. Hermione's resurrection is one of the most hotly
contested scenes in all of Shakespeare's plays, but the most
straightforward yet multi-layered interpretation is that her
resurrection is a literal one. Tolkien might call it the eucatastrophe
of the play. Eucatastrophe, Tolkien says, is "the consolation of
fairy-stories, the joy of the happy ending: or more correctly of the
good catastrophe, the sudden joyous 'turn' (for there is no true end to
any fairy-tale): this joy, which is one of the things which
fairy-stories can produce supremely well, is not essentially 'escapist,'
nor 'fugitive.' In its fairy-tale---or otherworld---setting, it is a
sudden and miraculous grace: never to be counted on to recur" (68).
Divine grace, both "sudden and miraculous," perfectly describes
Hermione's resurrection. Thus, in The Winter's Tale, Shakespeare
presents a beautiful, hopeful story, but a fictional one that is only a
reflection of the Gospel---a story far more beautiful and hopeful
because it is real.

## Works Cited

- Bloom, Harold, and Paul Gleed, editors. The Winter's Tale. Bloom's
Literary Criticism, 2010. Internet Archive,
[https://archive.org/details/winterstale0000unse_k8x4/mode/1up](https://archive.org/details/winterstale0000unse_k8x4/mode/1up).

- Bloom, Harold. "Introduction." Bloom and Gleed, pp. ix-xi.

- Clarke, Charles. "Shakespeare-Characters, Chiefly Those Subordinate."
Bloom and Gleed, pp. 41-56.

- Eliot, T. S. "Introduction." Shakespeare and the Popular Dramatic
Tradition, Octagon Books, 1944, pp. vii- x. Internet Archive,
[https://archive.org/details/shakespearepopul0000beth/mode/2up](https://archive.org/details/shakespearepopul0000beth/mode/2up).

- Gleed, Paul. "Key Passages in The Winter's Tale." Bloom and Gleed, pp.
11-18.

- Quiller-Couch, Arthur. "Shakespeare's Workmanship." Bloom and Gleed, pp.
61-70.

- Shakespeare, William. The Winter's Tale, edited by John Pitcher, The
Arden Shakespeare, 2010, pp. 145-347.

- The NKJV Bible. Bible Gateway, 1982,
[https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Corinthians+15%3A19&version=NKJV](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Corinthians+15%3A19&version=NKJV).

- Tolkien, J. R. R. "On Fairy-Stories." Tree and Leaf, Houghton Mifflin
Company, 1965, pp. 3-73.

- Viswanathan, S. "Sleep and Death: The Twins in Shakespeare." Comparative
Drama, vol. 13, no. 1, 1979, pp. 49--64. JSTOR,
[http://www.jstor.org/stable/41152816](http://www.jstor.org/stable/41152816). Accessed 21 Mar. 2023.
