---
name: Ginger
surname: Schiffmayer
title: "The Danse Macabre"
authordescription: Ginger Schiffmayer is a sophomore at Grove City College.
tags: ["fiction"]
permalink: "/4/3/the-danse-macabre/"
---
"You're painting yourself to death."

Tassin started at the sound of Jean's voice, marring the marigold dress
of the skeletal noblewoman he was painting with an ugly black splotch.
"By the---"

"Mind your language, Tassin." Jean cut him off. "This will be a church
eventually, after all."

"Sorry, Jean. I didn't see you enter. I..." Tassin was immersed in
fixing the mistake, scraping off the ruined fresco plaster. Since when
had Jean become the pious one? It must have been his studies at the
monastery.

"You don't see much of anything outside of your imaginary landscapes
anymore. When was the last time you got a full night's sleep? Or a real
meal? You look less healthy than those skeletons you've been painting."\
Tassin laughed---or tried to. Even he cringed at the sound that emerged
from his throat, hollow, edged with madness--half-laugh, half-rattle.

"Those skeletons are part of the Danse Macabre," he explained,
attempting to distract Jean, who looked troubled. "It's symbolic of---"
He leaned close to the wall, squinting, using minuscule strokes to give
the impression of lace on the bottom of the noblewoman's dress. "---of
the unescapable equalizing power death holds over us all." Grinning
skeletons led a procession of nobles, butchers, farmers, kings, and even
a pope across the walls, capering joyously towards rows of graves. It
was nearly finished; the crowning glory of Tassin's murals.

Jean raised an eyebrow at the sudden shift in topic but followed
Tassin's lead. "Yes, I've seen others like it. Well, not quite like
yours---nothing is---but other Danses Macabre. They seem to have come
into fashion after the...well, you know." Jean cleared his throat. "Do
you know what day it is?"

"The four-hundred and seventy-third."

"Four hundred and--Tassin, you can't keep counting the days since
Christine died."

"Why not? You count back the days since the Light of the World first
visited this wretched mortal sphere---I count the days since the light
of my world left it."

"That's...vaguely blasphemous. Anyway, it's Sunday. You should take a
break. Go to a church service. See other people."

"I spend all day in a church. And who is there to see? I have work to
do."

"Me, for one. We used to be friends. Back when you had friends. What's
happened to you?"

"Jean, I didn't---"

"I don't want to hear it. You're going outside if I have to carry you."

Tassin thought it might be easier for Jean to carry him than it would be
to walk---it was getting difficult to lift a paintbrush---but he kept
that thought to himself. Jean was wrong, anyhow, about the mural being
responsible for the decline in his health. This final contract, to paint
the new chapel at Cluny, was the only thing keeping him alive since
Christine had...

In the past 473 days, the emptiness in him had grown, taking first joy,
then health. This final, burning passion, the escape to his mural world,
was all the sickness had left him. Tassin had been killed by the plague
as surely as Christine had. It was just taking an agonizingly long time
to finish the job. Tassin blew out the lantern, stood up shakily, and
joined Jean at the threshold of the church.

"It really is nothing short of a miracle," Jean said, turning slowly to
survey the scenes sprawled across the walls. "But I wonder, is it worth
the cost? At what price come miracles?"

Crusaders, saints, rulers, and prophets---they lived their lives on the
walls, rampaging, dancing, and dying in the soft morning light from the
stained-glass windows. Not quite as realistic as classical tastes
demanded, not as symbolic as contemporary paintings. Tassin's art had a
feverish, dream-like quality that "rose in the raptures of genius and
danced on the edge of madness." At least, that was what Christine had
said in one of her more poetic moments. He could hear her so clearly in
his mind, see her running through the empty chapel as she had the day he
had gotten the contract, imagining out loud all the wonders that would
soon fill the whitewashed walls. A sharp pang of loss shot through him,
and he grabbed the edge of a carved pew to steady himself.

"I've put everything I have into it," he mumbled, eyes fixed on the
polished stone floor.

"That's what I'm afraid of," Jean said. "Now, let's get you some
sunlight, food, human company, and possibly a hospital."

***

The town of Cluny---sprung up around the famous Cluny abbey---had
recovered surprisingly well in the 473 days since the plague had left
its borders. "The End of the World" had been on the lips of nearly
everyone, from the wandering heretic priests to the common bakers and
butchers. The Black Death seemed to claim the third of humanity promised
to disease in the Book of Revelation. For Tassin, the prophecy of an
ending rang true. Now, for everyone else, life seemed to continue much
as it always had, a few new faces, new lines etched in the old ones. How
had they learned to smile again? Sing songs in the taverns, stop to chat
with the market vendors?

Everything reminded him of Christine. That building on the corner that
had stood empty for so many years, now filled with refugees from towns
that had been wiped off the map by the plague or war---that was the
building whose roof they used to sit on to watch the stars. And that
play on the streetside--they had watched that same troupe when it last
passed through, Tassin sketching while Christine laughed at the jokes
and tried to get him to pay attention. He had promised to leave his
sketchbook behind next time they...next time...

Tassin stumbled again, and this time there was nothing but the packed
dirt of the market square to catch him.

Jean was at his side in an instant. "Tassin, are you all right?" He
answered his own question before Tassin could reassure him. "Of course
you're not. Curse you for a stubborn fool, why didn't you tell me how
sick you'd gotten?"

"I'm all right," Tassin struggled to his feet, nudging Jean to the side.
"It was a mistake to come out here, that's all." What had he been
thinking? There was still so much wrong with the mural, so many
imperfect shadows, angles, faces, unfilled outlines, and---

Jean grabbed him by the arm.

"Oh no, you don't. You're not setting foot in that hollow shell of a
church until I say so. The Lord Patron Enguerrand de Coucy can wait. In
fact, he's already said you're years ahead of schedule."

The Lord Patron Enguerrand de Coucy? Tassin stared blankly at Jean,
before remembering Coucy was the one funding the construction and
decoration of the church, hoping that, in return, God would favor him in
the endless war against the English. Tassin laughed for the second time
that morning. He had forgotten entirely why he had begun the project in
the first place. Eight hundred livres for a church full of
paintings---more money than most artists saw in a lifetime. How
irrelevant it now seemed, with no one to spend it on!

"I fail to see the humor," Jean said, leading Tassin by the arm away
from the church. Tassin attempted to fight backbut refocused his
energies on simply staying upright. He had always lost to Jean in mock
swordfights and battles when they were younger---to be fair, most
everyone in the town had---and his friend remained far larger and
stronger. Besides, Tassin admitted to himself, he'd probably be unable
to resist any child over five years old by now.

"The Lord forgive me this one day in two years," Jean muttered. "But
I've got to get you to a bed. As Christ himself pointed out, it's no sin
to heal on the Sabbath."

It wasn't long before they reached the medium-sized house Jean's family
kept in Cluny. Though not of noble blood, they ran a successful merchant
enterprise that allowed them to maintain multiple houses throughout
France. Wealthy, yet title-less families were rare but becoming more and
more common, especially after the...after the... Tassin sagged against
Jean, unable to walk any farther.

"I'm-" It was getting difficult to think coherently and he was having
trouble speaking. "I'm sorry. I can..." No matter how hard he willed it,
his treacherous body refused to stand back up.

"Well, you should be sorry."

Enough of Tassin was still awake to be surprised at his friend's tone as
he half-dragged-half-carried him towards the house. Jean never got
angry. Never---except when he was scared.

"It's the sun, I think, after all those months in that cavern of a
building. That, and the crowds. And to think you once liked crowds...
But above all, it's your accursed refusal to take care of yourself. How
could you let this happen? I should..."

Darkness swam around Tassin, and he collapsed entirely, leaving Jean
with no one to berate.

***

The first surprise for Tassin was that he woke up at all.

He was in a bedroom at Jean's house usually kept empty for guests. It
was near midnight, judging from the position of the moon outside his
window. A single candle still burned on the bedside table, a meal of
stew and crusty bread beside it, long since gone cold. Jean was
collapsed in a chair in the corner, and Tassin felt suddenly ashamed of
himself. When was the last time he had bothered to acknowledge Jean with
more than a passing greeting when he visited the church? Their
conversation earlier echoed in his head:

*"And who is there to see? I have work to do."*

*"Me, for one. We used to be friends. Back when you had friends."*

He would have to do better. There wasn't much time left to make things
right.

He got his second surprise of the night when he sat up. Tassin was so
used to the world spinning around him whenever he rose quickly that he
had almost forgotten the way things were supposed to be. But tonight,
there was nothing, no weakness or pain. For the first time in 474 days,
Tassin felt... normal. There was something wrong about it, an underlying
guilt that he could feel like this with Christine gone, but he was
grateful nonetheless for this second chance. Struck with a sudden
urgency not to squander it, Tassin quietly slipped from the bed and
pulled on his boots.

He would finish the painting tonight.

Before he left, he drank the entire bowl of savory soup and grabbed the
small loaf of bread. When was the last time he had eaten more than a few
bites at a time? Tassin pushed the troublesome thought away and crept
from the house.

The moon was full tonight, and he could see the silent streets clearly.
A warm summer breeze carrying the earthy smell of the forest ruffled his
hair and pushed him onward. The hollow chapel, the nearly finished
walls, they called him with an irresistible force, stronger than ever
before. He seemed to gain strength with every step, faster, faster, his
worn boots pounding rhythmically against the familiar streets---

And suddenly, he was inside the church again. The paintings looked
different tonight, in the ghost light of the full moon. Before, they had
been strange, delicate---the world seen through the eyes of a half-mad
dreamer. Tonight, they were bizarre, haunting---almost as if from
another world altogether. They looked, Tassin realized, like they did in
his imagination, had the fantastic quality of that first vision that no
artist is ever able to capture as well as they would wish. The paintings
he was looking at were far beyond his skill---in fact, beyond the skill
of any artist he had ever seen. It wasn't quite that the people and
creatures cavorting across the walls looked alive, but *beyond* life,
animated by some other force entirely.

And as Tassin watched, the paintings began to move.

At first, he doubted his eyes, thinking it a trick of the moonlight or
his illness. The movements were so slow and subtle: the toss of a
horse's head, the flutter of a lady's scarf. But color bled into the
unfinished portions, and the movements gained forcefulness until
miniature hunting parties were chasing stags with gilded antlers as
lapis dragons wheeled above, and long-dead kings reenacting their
battles, watched over by a parliament of angels. At the center of it
all, the Danse Macabre capered, frenzied and joyous and surreal, never
missing a step. Tassin watched, unsure of what he should do or feel, but
entirely unable to turn away. And now he could hear the painted ocean,
upon which his tiny warships sailed. He could hear the clash of swords
and the lonely call of hunting horns.

He could hear the music of the Danse Macabre.

Layer on layer of stringed instruments swooped and dipped and soared
around each other, up and down, in and out of a single melody. It
sounded halfway between a harvest festival dance and a march, taking
unexpected turns into minor chords and strange harmonies, an ominous
undertone of deep drums keeping the time.

It was perfect.

Entranced, Tassin stepped forward and put his hand against the wall. One
of the dancers, a woman in a simple yellow dress, stopped, then turned
towards him. Their eyes met, and a chill ran through Tassin. Something
about her looked so very familiar...

She seemed to walk forward, and for one disorienting moment, he was
unsure what was real, and what was part of the mural---if his world was
the real one at all. And then the dancers and music filled the
once-barren church, and the woman was pulling him into the Danse
Macabre. There had been a time when Tassin was one of the best dancers
in the region. At festivals, he and Christine had... he and... Tassin
let the music carry his thoughts away and lost himself in the dance.
Skeletons mingled among the dancers, leading the dance forward, yet he
somehow wasn't afraid. He had painted them in, hadn't he? This was how
it was meant to be. They spun out the door into the street, laughing and
chasing each other, led by their ever-grinning guides. He wasn't sure if
he had gone mad---but if this was madness, he didn't care for sanity. It
felt terribly like joy. And that was something Tassin hadn't felt in far
too long.

They stopped eventually at the living quarters at a monastery. An old
man was waiting for them at the door, a strange look on his face.
Trepidation? Anticipation? Tassin had seen him in town before, though
he'd never learned his name. One of the skeletons gave the man a nod,
and he closed his eyes briefly.

When they opened again, the same joy that Tassin felt lit his face, and
he nodded in return, taking the skeleton's hand and joining the dance.
Just a few seconds ago, the old man had been stooped, his movements slow
and unsure, but he now moved with perfect grace and a joyful freedom
that was wonderful to see. They stopped again at a merchant's house on
the edge of town to meet a raven-haired woman. The transformation was
much the same with her, though her gaze lingered briefly on the house
she was leaving behind.

"Why these two?" Tassin asked the woman in the yellow dress.

She smiled at him. "You already know, don't you?"

Tassin smiled back. Yes, he knew where and why the Danse Macabre
traveled.

He was going to see Christine.

Tassin could never have said how long they danced. The moon stood still
in the sky as they wandered through the darker corners of forests, or
the winding secret alleyways of old, old cities, over little stone
bridges and forgotten Roman paths, stopping occasionally to add to their
ranks. Once, they passed through an empty ruin of a town, an unplanned
monument to the forgotten hundreds who had once called it home. They
were all over Europe; towns for whom the plague really had been the end
of the world. Tassin had a feeling the Danse had passed this way before.

After an endless time that was really no time at all, they came to a
great stone arch that shimmered in the moonlight. Tassin wondered with a
sort of joyous apprehension what could be on the other side.

Then, all at once, it became irrelevant. Standing beside the portal,
wearing a simple pale green dress was---

Christine.

Tassin ran like he had never run before, terrified that she might
disappear again. He could barely see, his vision was so blurred with
tears, but when she met him halfway, she was *real*---strong arms, thick
curly hair, pounding heartbeat. They clung to each other, and the Danse
whirled around them.

"Did you miss me?" Christine asked in a teasing tone, and suddenly
everything was right again. Butsomehow, all Tassin could manage was a
half-laugh-half-sob. Christine slid out of the embrace, though she kept
a tight hold on his hand. "What happened to you? You look worse than the
skeletons." "That's what Jean said," Tassin replied, sniffing. He wished
Christine didn't have to see how weak he'd become, but was too happy to
truly care. "I've been sick since you... you know."

"Sick." Christine locked eyes with him. "That seems to be true enough.
But I know you, Tassin. I wonder, how much of your suffering was
self-inflicted?" Her demeanor shifted and she smiled. "But we're not in
Cluny anymore, and the past is dead. Tassin, we should dance."

"You have *no idea* how desperately I've longed to hear you say that
again."

It felt so much like a dream---dancing with Christine in her sage-green
dress in this magical corner of the forest, amongst the living
paintings---that Tassin didn't dare let go of her hand. They danced as
they had never danced before, no longer the stars of a regional
festival, but something ethereal, otherworldly, a part of the Danse
Macabre. Unseen hands plucked at unseen strings, as their feet drummed
against the mossy forest floor. They danced and danced and danced, and
Tassin was beyond sorrow, beyond describable joy.

Then Christine stopped.

They had travelled all the way to the edge of the stone arch, and Tassin
noticed with surprise that Christine had tears in her eyes.

"Is this... the end?" He gestured towards the arch.

"For me." Christine smiled, a smile full of hope and deep sadness. "But
not for you, Tassin."

"What?" The single word sounded small, irrelevant to him, a fragile
defense against the tide of fear and despair that had suddenly surged
within him.

"Oh, Tassin." Christine brushed one of his unruly back curls behind his
ear. "You have so much to offer this world. So many blank walls to
paint, and dark corners to illuminate. How could I keep that all to
myself?" Tears rolled down her face freely now, though she was still
smiling. "You haven't even finished the walls of the church."

Tassin wished that he didn't understand the depth of what she was
saying, wished for the same numb, confused disbelief he had felt when
the doctor had first told him Christine wasn't going to get better---but
he had spent the past 474 days learning exactly what a life without
Christine looked like. The despair that had consumed him ever since he
had first lost Christine reared up, clawing at him, tearing him into
tiny, hopeless pieces. How could he make her understand? Without her,
there could be no more art, no more life.

"Do you remember," he asked, "why I began painting the church?"

"Of course. So that we would have enough money to move to Paris, be near
the university."

"So you could get your books and essays published, Christine, so you
could be an author. And when you left, I swore to finish it, make it as
beautiful as I could, so it would stand as a memorial of your life, and
our love, forever. But after that... nothing. Everything, *everything*,
I've done has been for you, ever since the day we met. I love you,
Christine, but not in the ordinary way. Not even in the fairytale way. I
love you like I love art, or poetry, or music. You show me a new way to
see the world, a better way. And everything is full of light and joy,
and every cobblestone street and forest trail holds endless
possibilities and adventures, because you're there to travel them with
me. A single dance in the moonlight with you holds more magic than all
the secret places and unknown eternities of the world ever could if I
faced them alone."

He paused, waiting for her to speak, but she just stood there, moonlit
tears painting silver tracks down her face.

"The first week after you left," he eventually continued softly, "I woke
up every day and went about my life as usual. I thought... I knew life
could never be the same, but I thought I could keep going, because you
had asked me to. But I couldn't, Christine. There was always something
missing. All the beauty seemed to leech out of the world, the fields and
forests we used to escape to, the people we would stay up late into the
night talking about. My life narrowed until all I had left was the
church, my final tribute. It was all I was living for. A life without
you is a life without beauty. And a life without beauty is nothing at
all." Tassin fell to his knees, wanting to meet her eyes more than
anything, too afraid of the response he might see written in them to
lift his head. Why couldn't she understand? She had always understood so
well before.

"Christine," he said in a broken voice, "don't leave me alone again."

Christine dropped to the ground and wrapped her arms around him. "You've
lost so much," she whispered. He could feel her body shaking, as she
tried to hold back tears. "I don't want to leave you." But she would
have to.

He held her tighter, sobbing into her shoulder.

"I was never some magician to remake the world," she continued. "The
change was in your perspective. That was *you*, Tassin. I was just the
catalyst for your potential. Even without me, you can still walk those
paths, dream those dreams. You can live without me. You have to live
without me."

"No, I can't," he whispered. "I can't, not again. Let me go with you.
Please. *Please.*"

"It's not my decision to make. But I wouldn't let you, even if it was,
no matter how it tears at my heart. Every soldier longs to return
home---every artist, I think, longs for some home beyond this world,
beyond the fields they know. But they cannot leave, because they still
have battles to fight. *You, Tassin, still have battles to fight.*"

He knew then that he had lost her. She must have seen the defeat in his
eyes, because she lowered her voice and spoke with incredible intensity.
"Tassin, I've never been able to lie to you, so I can't promise
everything will go back to the way it was, or that it will be easy to
find happiness again. But remember this, please. If you go back and keep
shutting out the world, all of this, our sacrifice in staying apart,
will be for nothing. And Tassin, remember that I love you. I don't know
how to put it into words, except to tell you that *I love you like you
love me.* Do you think that if I didn't know with certainty that the
world needed the type of beauty only you could give, I would *ever* let
go of your hand? But I am letting go." And she did. "Trust me, Tassin.
Trust that I love you. Trust that I have to say goodbye."

"Forever?" The single word, with its dreadful echoes of eternity, seemed
to hang between them. Then, Christine rushed forward and grabbed his
hands one final time.

"No, of course not! We had tonight, didn't we? Beyond all hope, a final,
impossible dance. And whether in this world or another, we will dance
together again, one day." She looked into his eyes, and he nodded.

"One day."

Christine stepped through the arch, releasing his hand at the last
possible second, Tassin's vision went dark, and the music of the Danse
Macabre winked out.

***

When Tassin awoke, his skin glistened with the cool morning dew, and his
eyes stung from crying. The arch had all but vanished; the ancient,
cobbled road, half swallowed by the forest, now led to a crumbling ruin,
stones scattered through the clearing. Tassin recognized the area now,
with the hazy enchantment of the night burned away by the first blush of
rosy dawn. It was a short walk from Cluny---he and Jean had explored
this area as children, playing at being mad Roman emperors. Tassin sat
there for a long time, staring at the ruin. He felt as if he should be
too tired to weep---the tears came anyway.

But eventually, he struggled to his feet. He had battles to fight, and a
painting to finish.

When Tassin stumbled into Jean's house later---much later---that day, he
found his friend arguing with the sheriff at the door. When he saw
Tassin, a look of immense relief passed over his face, and Tassin
immediately felt guilty.

"Where were you?" Jean thanked the constable swiftly, then took Tassin
by the shoulders and guided him into his bedroom. "I had the whole town
out looking for you, not an easy task considering you've been content
this last year or so to let them forget you existed. I was afraid you
might have done something...rash."

Tassin laughed weakly, noticing with surprise how different it sounded
from yesterday: sad, and oh-so-tired, but genuine. "Rash? Me? Never."

Jean must have noticed the difference too, because he gave Tassin a
quizzical look. "You are staying here, Tassin, until I say you can
leave, even if that's until the end of time. And if you refuse, try to
go back to destroying yourself, I'll save you a couple of days, and send
you to the underworld right here and now."

So Tassin stayed with Jean.

The days crawled by, and Tassin alternated between sleeping, eating,
talking with Jean, and sleeping a whole lot more. Some days, he felt
well enough to talk to people, walk around town---others, he felt like
he would never recover. But he did, slowly, steadily, and after a few
weeks, he finally convinced Jean to let him go back to the church and
continue his work.

And Tassin began to paint himself back to life.

All the manic energy had gone out of him, and what he once hoped to
finish in one final, crazed night, now took careful, laborious weeks.
The first hint of fall had just begun to creep into the air when Tassin
stood back and declared that he could do no more. Jean was studying in
the church, as he often did, but he rose to his feet at the announcement
and walked to Tassin's side. Tassin had never been able to capture the
wild magic of that night, and the longing in him for that strange
*something* beyond perfection of form or color still itched. But the
lack of magic didn't mean the painting was lifeless; it was animated by
a powerful undercurrent of emotion. The expressions of the figures
varied greatly, but united, gave a powerful impression of that most
human of emotions---longing. Longing for honor, for glory, for joy, for
the world that no one has ever seen, but everyone knows ought to be. An
agonized appeal to the impossible, a rapturous depiction of what can
never be.

Jean eventually broke the silence. "I'll never know how you did it. I
only know the world is a more *real* place because of you; life is more
beautiful knowing that a place like this exists."

Tassin smiled. "You're a better friend than I deserve, Jean. And I'm not
just saying that because you're all I have left."

"I only wish Christine could be here. But... perhaps she is." Tassin
looked up, confused, not daring to hope.

"What?" he asked softly.

"Isn't this her that you've painted in?" Jean stepped closer. "No, I see
now the face isn't quite the same. But she had a yellow dress just like
this. And look, this woman here, she has Christine's hair!" He was
right, Tassin realized with a start. And those weren't the only figures.
A saint had her way of standing, an angel had her smile, a king shared
the shape of her nose. Christine, all around, never quite right, too
close to be coincidence. He joined Jean at the wall, their voices
overlapping as they pointed out all the different variations of
Christine, laughing and crying at the same time.

"Oh." Something in the tone of Jean's soft exclamation stopped Tassin in
his tracks. "What is it? A mistake?"

"No, just the opposite. It couldn't be... it couldn't be more perfect.
Here she is, by the Danse Macabre."

A chill ran down Tassin's spine. He turned and hurried over to where
Jean was standing. In the center of the Danse Macabre, two figures
danced; Christine in her sage dress, and Tassin in a fine green doublet,
a great stone arch looming in the background.

"I don't remember painting this," Tassin said softly. Jean was right; it
was perfect, the capstone of this memorial to love and loss. This one
small part of the painting had kept the magic of the Danse Macabre.

"I'd almost forgotten how much you loved dancing," Jean said. "You must
miss that. I wish there was some way I could convince you to dance
again."

"Oh, I will," Tassin said. "One day." *One day.*
