---
title: The White Wood Part II
author: Harmonious Finch
authordescription: 
category: fiction
permalink: "/3/2/the-white-wood-2/"
---

Shortly along his path, Conri heard a slight whimper. As he looked down,
he expected to find the child mirroring his discontent, but the child
appeared absorbed by some presence in the distance, his eyes fixed upon
a bundle of white that lay curled on the snow. Conri approached the
white mass cautiously. Some hint of texture and movement separated
the...*thing*...from its icy surroundings.

Conri crept upon the small ball of fur that shivered in the cold of
evening, the fringes of light beginning to fade from the breaks in the
Wood. With a start, Conri recognized the form of a wolf cub, its fur the
purest white, lying alone and unguarded amidst the harsh landscape.
Though it seemed to be sleeping, the creature whimpered and whined
fitfully, and Conri gently stroked at the cub's fur. The child attempted
to do the same, his hand protruding from the cloth folded around him.
Conri's touch set blue wild eyes opening wide. The creature whipped its
head to bite at the hand. Conri barely avoided the ferocious nip. The
cub's fear abating, it struggled to stand, peering warily at the small
child and the lad before him. It crept cautiously to the child's open
fingers, before nuzzling at the warmth of the skin. The child responded
in kind, cooing as his hand brushed the fur. Conri sensed his time
waning and began his trek to the Crypt. He noticed movement near his leg
and found the cub following by his heel.

...

Evening had fallen away, and the darkness of night was accentuated by
the unbreakable shadow of the Thracs tightening their grasp on the air
about the Wood. Conri trudged on, refusing to stray from his chosen
path. He saw a light in the distance, orange in its blaze, and he felt
that his journey was leading to his expected conclusion, a meeting with
the Wanderer. The child within his arms breathed quietly in his sleep,
and the wolf cub kept directly by Conri's side. Yet as they approached
the odd light, the cub seemed hesitant, looking about and whimpering.
Though the weariness of his travels dragged at Conri's spirit, he
maintained strength and felt his hope surging as he neared the fixed
point of illumination. He started as he broke into a small clearing, the
home of the light, and he paused in shock. There was no flame, nor
lantern, rather an orb of reddish-orange light hovered about fourteen
hands in the sky.

"Well, hello there, odd to see visitors, especially of your age," a
voice called from the trees. Conri twisted frantically, attempting to
catch sight of the voice's owner. A figure appeared, its form
illuminated by the shadows. It remained amidst the trees, lingering for
only a moment where the trees held apart. It was large in frame, to an
inhuman degree, and its face was impossible to discern in the shroud of
darkness.

"Alloa, sir, are you the Wanderer?" Conri kept an eye on the figure, as
it drifted through the trees.

"Oh... yes, I suppose that's what they have to come to call me now.
Though I must say I've never fancied that name, I have made my home
here, and shall wander no more."

"I apologize, uh... sir, I meant no offense." Conri worried that he had
set upon the wrong path with the mage, he was dependent upon his aid.

The figure laughed. "Oh, lad, I am not offended by such things, I have
passed beyond such a realm of mortal... shortcomings." The Wanderer
emerged from the trees, and Conri sighed in relief to find that his face
was indeed human. Though the darkness hid the color of his eyes, it was
evident that he was smiling. His voice was distinct from anything Conri
had ever heard.

"Well sir, I've come to ask..."

"Oh I know very well why you've come. It's the same story as every man
who stumbles into the crypt. You want my aid. But more importantly, you
want my power." To punctuate the statement, the Wanderer waved his hand,
and a mass of roots, though far too dark to resemble those of the Thrac
trees, rose and grasped around the orb, creating the structure of an
ornate lantern. The lantern's form set the light dancing about the
clearing, whilst throwing odd shadows upon the snow.

Conri stared in awe, "Could you help, sir? I have to make for the West,
and I don't know how I'll make it. I've been in constant prayer, but the
Maker has yet to provide, as always."

The Wanderer chuckled, "I see now where your struggle lies. You place
too great a faith in some fragment of good beyond any form of proper
sense. Power and preservation come through sacrifice." The figure
glanced at the wolf cub, "Good, still young, less attachment, that makes
things easier. Come here, lad." He moved towards the center of the
clearing, raising his right hand and drawing it into a fist, the roots
descending with the unearthly light in tow.

"What are you saying? That I should sacrifice myself for the child?"
Conri raised an eyebrow, his question lingering.

"No, the cub will do just fine." The figure gestured emphatically, "now
come here." Conri glanced at the wolf cub, only now realizing that the
cub had been whimpering as he cowered from the tendrils of light that
fell upon the ground. Suddenly, the wolf broke from the company, dashing
off towards the trees. Conri, conflicted, glanced at the Wanderer,
before clarity struck hold, and he followed the cub. As he neared the
darkness, he gasped in horror and stumbled back.

Before them lay a great wolf, her fur seared and her form scorched. Her
right side was bare but for the marks of flame. The creature matched the
cub in its original pure white fur. The younger counterpart had crept to
her head and licked at her fur. Perhaps the cub thought it could wake
the wolf from her silent slumber. Conri fell to his knees, tears welling
in his eyes, certain that this was the cub's mother before him.

He tensed instinctively, raised his Thraccing Spear in wariness, and
turned towards the Wanderer. "What is this?"

The Wanderer had shifted away from the orb, and loomed over the smaller
figure, his gaze fixed upon the scene. "She was my companion once. When
I was as you are now. But you must understand, boy... power such as
this," he curled his hand and the roots sprang up once more, providing a
mirage of shattered wings behind him, "such divine stature in the face
of mortality... comes at a cost, that of sacrifice." He reached for
Conri's hand. "Allow me to show you what the Maker never wanted you to
know."

Conri felt a strong tug at his spirit, and he ran, his passage set for
the west. "Blue!" the name slipped from the lad, almost instinctively.
The cub peered up at the call, turning his head to the side in
confusion. "We have to go!" The wolf seemed to accept his new name, and
hesitated for only a moment. He peered at its fallen heritage, before
setting off, rushing behind Conri as they struck through the snow.

"You'll learn boy," The Wanderer said.

Conri dodged as a massive spring of roots erupted from the ground,
seizing at him. They latched onto his legs, holding him in place as he
struck at them with his staff.

He secured the child in his grasp, who, waking abruptly, erupted into a
loud cry as his form was thrashed about. Feeling his footing fail, Conri
braced himself for some terrible end, but he heard a cry emerge from the
clearing, one of surprise, and the roots fell away. Though Conri wanted
to figure out what had happened, his better sense urged him to flee.

...

Conri had yet to sleep, and still maintained course along his route. He
had continued for the west without much rest till the evening of the
next day. The break in the White Wood was but a short distance off, and
the trees were beginning to thin. Were not the sounds of the Wood
deafened by the cacophony of claw upon Thrac and wing upon air, he would
have rejoiced. Blue ran beside his heels, never once falling behind. The
child's eyes were wide with fear as he gazed up at the sheer mass of
Perchclaws that were making themselves apparent in the Canopy of the
Wood, their shadows alone throwing a sense of darkness upon the
frost-covered ground. While they had yet to attack, the lessened cover
of the trees ensured that Conri's presence was evident. At each passing
moment, he anticipated one of the creatures to sweep down and strike him
dead with their talons. Yet the Perchclaws refrained, for some reason or
another; Conri could only wonder at their patience. Though he found
himself ever aware of their presence, his focus was more on his path
than the force above him.

At long last, the Thracs receded entirely, and Conri paused at the brink
of the White Wood. Further West stood the feet of the Torith Mountains,
their rocky might a looming presence that enveloped the plain between
the Wood in shadow. The Perchclaws swirled together in a seething mass
within the sky. They had bested him in speed, no doubt in direct
consequence of his pursuit of the Wanderer. He cursed as he reprimanded
himself.

What good would any further travel do for the preservation of the child?
Their metal-clad pursuer would not abandon the chase, and no stop would
prove safe with his constant watch. Yet Conri couldn't dare venture
south with the child or forfeit their lives.

"Maker, please, I beg you. I've done what I can; I can't go any further.
Please...keep the child safe, and let me go."

Wrapping the boy as best he could in his fold, Conri set him in the
snow, and shifted its glimmering mass to obscure his form. Blue lingered
by the lad, the cub lying down beside his figure.

"Fare thee well, child." Conri offered no further farewell, as he turned
to the south, and began his desperate trek to refuge. He employed the
notions of stealth imbued upon him in his youth and crept from shadow to
shadow. Conri peered up and breathed a sigh of relief, the mass of
Perchclaws had yet to follow him; they circled above the child, their
mass a writhing mix of wings, teeth, and talons.

"I can't go back, there's nothing more I can do." He repeated the words
in his head, all the more eager to convince himself. Even as he strived
forward, his gaze was fixed upon their horrifying form, his eyes
drifting to his stopping point.

"What do you desire of me, Lord?" Conri broke into tears as he called
into the frosty air, slumping onto the support of a Thrac tree. "I
desire nothing more than to serve your grand purpose, but Maker, I see
not what path you have set before me, and I never have." His eyes closed
as he sobbed, and he knelt to a crouch, futility seething through his
being. "Please," his voice was barely more than a whisper.

The darkness of his mind's eye slowly burned away, as some glaring heat
lay upon him. His eyes crept open, ablaze in a glory of light. The sun
had sent its rays drifting through the branches of the Thrac trees, and
one wayward strand crept upon his countenance. He rose, escaping the
blinding light. Conri peered back to the North, witnessing the sun
reveal itself upon his path in various dancing rays. He gasped, his gaze
settling on the largest break in the shadow. He could still detect the
white tail of the wolf cub in the odd light. Surely this was some trick
his mind was playing upon him. Although Conri prayed to the Maker, he
never honestly believed that a response would come. Maintaining his
quiet practice, he trudged back to his start, but as he began, he felt
his form being held in place. He felt the scathing forms of the roots
once more, yet peering down, there was nothing. Without a second
thought, he ran, allowing no time for his mind, and mortality, to
struggle against his decision. He managed to reach the lad in short time
and gazed down at his coddled form. There lay the boy and his companion,
snug, yet not safe. The deep blue eyes of the younger child set upon the
larger figure, filled with wonder and light. Conri met the lad's gaze,
and he understood. While the creatures were pursuant of the youngest
child, he could provide some sense of hope for miracle by dividing their
attention. He had come to peace with what must be done. For the child to
live, the Perchclaws would have to pursue their larger prize, one that
presented himself apart from the child.

"Maker, keep the boy, let your mercy and protection fall upon him. And
as for me, give me courage to do what must be done." This final striking
of pain brought some clarity upon his mind, and blinded, or rather, led,
by such timely clarity, he dashed back into the wood, allowing the wood
of the Thraccing Spear to strike upon any tree he might pass, a mighty
ruckus rising in

his wake. The roar of wings sounded above, affirming his suspicion.
Whatever force may be driving the Perchclaws was set upon his form.

He heard rustling to his right and his left and braced himself for the
attack, but this rustling was that of paw upon ground. Gazing about, he
gasped as shadows and passing forms drifted about, their destination
clear. By some strong grace, the creatures had refrained from howling,
they existed and strode in quiet unison. Such had been their guardian
force, their grand deterrent against the force above, and, Conri
realized in utter disbelief, the demise of the Wanderer. During his time
in the White Wood, Conri had never seen such a large pack, the presence
imposed itself with a hint of reverence and fear. Yet even as they
were...they were gone. He had ventured some distance from the Break, and
any hint of his stop was from this vantage imperceptible.

Conri was alone, and he paused in the snow, glancing at the skies. His
hope lay in his strength, and the time had come to stand tall, to stand
strong. His wait was short-lived, as one of the larger beasts dropped
vehemently to the ground, its claws grating against what stone and grass
lay beneath the snow. Its wings were strong and wide, firm scales lacing
their front. At full speed, a Perchclaw could strike down most trees
that lay in its path. Its tail flicked here and there, its dark edge
striking against the snow, leaving lash marks wherever it struck. A
shadowy figure slipped from the dragon's back. No sign of person or
identity could be detected, so complete was the mass of armor and metal
that covered every inch of his form. The figure appeared to wear some
form of cloak, his hands protruding from the shroud in talon-like
gauntlets. The helmet, or mask as Conri was inclined to call it, formed
a stark visage of a face, though its lack of feature portrayed an
unsettling void. Deep metallic breaths escaped through some orifice, and
a cold mist rose from the metal countenance. The figure reached to his
side and drew a Sicarath blade from his sheath. The blade's jagged edge
was foreign to the people of the Wood, though rumor and legend of terror
had described such a weapon in horrible retelling. The White Wood stood
terribly still, the trees and air seeming to hold their collective
breath as they observed the two figures. Though fear seized upon Conri's
spirit, a quiet peace drifted conversely upon him, and he relaxed, at
least in conscience. While Conri could not see it, a slight hint of
dancing shadow lingered in the eyes of his adversary, leaping and
seizing at his gaze. He saw the twitch in the hand, and in moments the
metal-clad warrior was upon him, striking rapidly, allowing the strength
of the blade to work upon the inexperienced defenses of the lad, who
parried with the staff as best he could. The lad's plight was evident,
as Conri sensed the blade retract from the wood and slash at his arm.
Pain ripped through his being, as the Thraccing spear dropped from his
grasp. The figure peered at him through steel, his prey defenseless.

Conri saw the iron talon reach for him, the cold touch alighting upon
his face. He peered directly into what holes had been set in the metal
for the eyes. There he saw white, gray, and shadow, a horrible mix
swimming together in the figure's looming gaze. Frost dissipated as an
emanating light filled his being. The desolate color of the abyss
drifted away, an unearthly brightness pouring into his mind's eye,
accompanied by radiating heat. Companions rose, who had long been silent
amidst the grave, their smiles marked by some joy beyond his
understanding. Before him stood his parents, their arms outstretched,
beckoning him to a new Wood, a Golden Wood. As he rushed to embrace his
parents, all about him, a chorus of howls erupted, honoring the fallen.

...

*Stranseinoir,*

*It is strange writing this after so many years, after so long believing
a singular testimony, only to discover it wholly false, and even in that
knowledge to stand at such great distance from the truth.*

*In such discovery, I can only say that I am sorry. I have learned what
horrid curse I brought upon you, and your people. In my death, you might
have escaped that horrid end, had only you left me to the Talon of the
North. Yet you remained faithful, for what reason I cannot discern; you
had little to gain from my preservation. But, I stand now, alive, well,
and grateful. Had I the chance, I would have followed you unto whatever
end the Maker might have written.*

*I shall never have the chance to properly honor you, to offer the dues
you undoubtedly deserve. But please know: I shall never forget you, nor
the virtue held within your spirit. Even now I sit amidst the White
Wood, the wolf, Blue, at my side. I believe he remembers you. We remain
in reverence in the quiet of this realm, the Maker's glory shimmering
all about us. I will guard this Wood till my due end; the Talons will
nevermore strike their blackened death upon this land. I shall stand
before the Wood, just as you stood before me, and hold the blade back in
its incessant murder.*

> *I have taken up your staff, I shall honor you till that good end.*

*Your brother, blessed to hold you as kin,*

*Corrin Laochdir*
