**CALENDAR**

ONGOING

Adult Community Volleyball is held each Monday at 6:30 p.m., at Eastford
Baptist Church, 133 Union Rd., Eastford, CT 06242. Join us for a few
games of casual volleyball! No need to be a professional! Just come and
have some free fun with friends and make new ones! No registration
required.

**OCTOBER**

Thursday, Oct. 3

Eastford Public Library presents "Storytime with Miss Jennifer,"
Thursday, Oct. 3, at 11 a.m. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time
of free play.

Wednesday, Oct. 9

Eastford Public Library presents "Maker's Night," Wednesday, Oct. 9, at
6 p.m. for adults and teens. Most months, everyone brings along some
type of handwork, such as: crocheting, knitting, embroidery, quilting,
drawing, journaling, etc. Occasionally, we have seasonal or group crafts
where everything you need is provided at no cost to patrons.

Thursday, Oct. 10

Eastford Public Library presents "Storytime with Miss Jennifer,"
Thursday, Oct. 10, at 11 a.m. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time
of free play.

Friday, Oct. 11

Join us at the Eastford Public Library for "Wee Wings," a Pajama
Storytime with Horizon Wings at 6:30 p.m. You must register for this
special event. Simply call the library at 860-974-0125, e-mail us at
eastfordpublib\@gmail.com or stop in to sign up. Horizon Wings Raptor
and Rehabilitation and Education is a non-profit wildlife center located
in Ashford. Owner Mary- Beth Kaeser will read a story to the children
that teaches them what to do if they find a baby bird. Three of her
smaller raptor friends will be featured in this program which is perfect
for little ones ages 3 and up.

Saturday, Oct. 12

Science Saturday at the Eastford Public Library. Join us for a STEAM
activity perfect for the season. Please register your child for this
event. Limit 12

Wednesday, Oct. 16

The Last Green Valley (TLGV), a non-profit charitable organization that
celebrates, advocates for, and protects the 35-town National Heritage
Corridor in eastern Connecticut and south-central Massachusetts, has
announced an Eastford event as part of its 34th annual "Walktober"
experience. Wednesday, Oct. 16, 10 a.m. to 12 p.m.: "Woods Wise: A
Forester Reads His Forest" (Rain Date: Oct. 23), Town Line Tree Farm, 97
Weeks Rd., Eastford, CT 06242; park at Crystal Pond Park. See the forest
through the eyes of former UConn Extension Education Forester Steve
Broderick as we tour his property in Eastford. Steve is "woods wise"
when it comes to what is going on in the forest and has been personally
managing his land for over three decades. During the tour, we'll learn
the history of his land, in particular what he has done over the past
decades to improve the health and vitality of his woods for harvestable
wood products, sugar bush management for maple syrup production, and
wildlife habitat. Registration is required. E-mail <bill@tlgv.org>, or
by call (860) 774-3300.

Thursday, Oct. 17

The Last Green Valley (TLGV), a non-profit charitable organization that
celebrates, advocates for, and protects the 35-town National Heritage
Corridor in eastern Connecticut and south-central Massachusetts, has
announced an Eastford event as part of its 34th annual "Walktober"
experience. Thursday, Oct. 17, 2-5 p.m.: "TLGV Wander & Ponder: Natchaug
State Forest Loop", Chaplin Road (Route 198), Eastford (GPS: 41.840821,
-72.0924118), parking in lots along road from Route 198 to Fernow
Bridge. Join TLGV at Natchaug State Forest for a difficult, 3-hour,
4.3-mile loop. The loop will cover part of the old Civilian Conservation
Corps trail and even stop by the old CCC camp. TLGV Wander & Ponder
Walks span the length of the Last Green Valley and are inspired by the
transformative journey across New England taken in Andrew Krivak's *The
Bear*. Join a community of readers to explore the relationship between
humanity and nature as part of a year-long Big Read Program at Eastern
Connecticut State University with walks, book discussions, exhibits, and
creative writing workshops. Sponsored by the Last Green Valley and ECSU.
For more information, call (860) 774-3300, or visit
www.thelastgreenvalley.org.

Eastford Public Library presents "Storytime with Miss Jennifer," at 11
a.m. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m.,
Friends of the Eastford Public Library will hold their October meeting.
All are invited to learn more about the Friends and the wonderful ways
in which they help the library.

Saturday, Oct. 19

Join Pastor Timothy Howard Jr. at Eastford Baptist Church on Saturday,
Oct. 19, at 6 p.m., for a Community Painting Class. Paintbrushes, paint,
and canvasses will be provided for free, but you are more than welcome
to bring your own supplies. Pastor Howard is a longtime artist, and will
guide you through a colorful, creative scene. Register for free online
at <https://eastfordbaptist.churchcenter.com/registrations>. Eastford
Baptist Church is located at 133 Union Rd., Eastford, CT 06242. Contact
the church at (860) 974-1414, or e-mail
<eastfordbaptistoffice@gmail.com> for more information.

Eastford Public Library presents "Haunted Happenings with After Dark
Paranormal," from 6-8 p.m. Spooky snacks will be served. This event is
for adults and teens age 16 and up. Patron Carissa Brodeur and her
partner will discuss haunted locations and present a slide show. Please
register for this event.

Tuesday, Oct. 22

Eastford Public Library presents the "Grim Readers Book Club," Tuesday,
Oct. 22, at 6 p.m. We will be discussing Paul Tremblay's horror novel
"The Cabin at the End of the World." All are welcome! Extra copies of
this book are available at the library. This book club meets every other
month on the fourth Tuesday at 6 p.m.

Thursday, Oct. 24

Eastford Public Library presents "Storytime with Miss Jennifer,"
Thursday, Oct. 24, at 11 a.m. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time
of free play. At 6p.m., Annual Adopt a Book Library Fundraiser co-hosted
by The Library Board and The Friends of the Eastford Public Library.
This beloved event takes place each autumn. It gives our patrons an
opportunity to adopt brand-new books at cost and gift them back to the
library. Book plates are added to the books in recognition of the givers
or to whomever the books are dedicated. Refreshments will be served. We
will also be honoring our dedicated library volunteers! Come meet our
Library Board and Friends of the Library.

Sunday, Oct. 27

Buell's Orchard will host its annual Trunk or Treat on Sunday, Oct. 27,
from 2-4 p.m. Free and open to the public. We are always looking to add
more "trunkers." No pets, please!

Thursday, Oct. 31

Happy Halloween from the Eastford Public Library! At 11 a.m., "Halloween
Storytime with Miss Jennifer." Join us for a story, craft, snack and
time of free play. From 5-7 p.m., Trick or Treat at the Library. Stop in
to show off your Halloween costumes!

**NOVEMBER**

Thursday, Nov 7

Eastford Public Library presents "Storytime with Miss Jennifer,"
Thursday, Nov. 7, at 11 a.m. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time
of free play.

Saturday, Nov. 9

Eastford Public Library presents the "BBC Book Club" Saturday, Nov. 9,
at 1 p.m. All are welcome to attend this multi-genre book club. We meet
every other month on the second Saturday at 1 p.m. Copies of the book
club pick will be available in early October.

Wednesday, Nov. 13

Eastford Public Library presents "Maker's Night" Wednesday, Nov. 13, at
6 p.m., for teens and adults. This month we will be making a
Thanksgiving Wreath Centerpiece at no cost to our patrons. Please sign
up for this event. Limit is 12.

Thursday, Nov 14

Eastford Public Library presents "Storytime with Miss Jennifer,"
Thursday, Nov. 14, at 11 a.m. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time
of free play.

Thursday, Nov 21

Eastford Public Library presents "Storytime with Miss Jennifer,"
Thursday, Nov. 21, at 11 a.m. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time
of free play. At 5 p.m., Friends of the Eastford Public Library November
meeting. All are welcome.

Saturday, Nov. 23

Eastford Public Library presents "Be Thankful Craft and Story,"
Saturday, Nov. 23, in collaboration with the Eastford PTO, from 10:30
a.m. to noon. You may register through the school or here at the
library.

Sunday, Nov. 24

Eastford Baptist Church will host its annual Thanksgiving Luncheon on
Sunday, Nov. 24, after church in the Family Activity Center. Invite your
friends and family to join us during our A.M. Worship Service at 10:30
a.m., followed by a traditional Thanksgiving meal afterwards! Stay as
long as you want, and leave as you must. The meal is completely free and
open to the community. For more information, call the church at (860)
974-1414, or e-mail eastfordbaptistoffice\@gmail.com.
