---
title: "Ashford Road bridge project slated for 2027"
layoutNumber: 
---
*Traffic to be detoured for months during bridge reconstruction*

EASTFORD --- The bridge over Bigelow Brook on Ashford Road has stood
firm since 1937. In 2027, 90 years after it first was constructed, it
will finally be replaced.

At a meeting on Tuesday, July 16, The CT Department of Transportation
(CT DOT) held an informational meeting for the public, detailing the
upcoming project that will give a much-needed update to a bridge that
has far outlived its service life.

According to CT DOT Supervising Engineer and Project Manager Marc
Byrnes, funding for the \$4.41-million, "Design Managed by State" (DMS)
project will come from the Federal Local Bridge Program, and will be
paid for with a combination of both federal (80 percent) and state (20
percent) funds. There will be no cost to the town. Spending will cover
both the construction, planning, and development and execution of rights
of way. The design portion, Byrnes said, will be "in full partnership
and coordination with the town."

He added that the DMS program is designed to provide "a streamlined
approach to design," using full CT DOT resources to aid the towns to
keep their bridges in a "state of good repair" by effective use of
funds, decreasing typical design time, and utilizing accelerated bridge
construction (ABC) techniques to shorten construction duration while
increasing the number of municipal projects delivered to construction
each year.

During the meeting, Byrnes introduced his fellow members of the Project
Team, which includes: Bart Sweeney, PE, Division Chief of Bridges for CT
DOT; Derick Lessard, PE, Principal Engineer for CT DOT; Michelle Rame,
PE, Project Engineer for CT DOT; Kathleen Ericson, Right-of-Way Property
Agent, CT DOT; Anand Seshadri, PE, CLE Team CHA; and Stephany Dubina,
CLE Team CHA.

According to Dubina, the 27-foot, 7-inch-long Ashford Road bridge, which
is designated as "Bridge No. 04645" by CT DOT, is in need of
replacement. Bridges in Connecticut are inspected biennially (once every
two years), and are given a rating of 1 (imminent failure) to 9
(excellent) in several categories, which include the deck, approach,
superstructure, substructure and channel/channel protection. Ratings in
these categories vary, ranging from 7 at the highest to 4 at the lowest.
The bridge's railing (5) and guide rail (5) currently do not meet safety
standards. Dubina said the bridge is "scour critical." According to the
U.S. Geological Survey, bridge scour is "the process of erosion that
occurs when fast-moving water removes sediment from around a bridge\'s
abutments or piers." Dubina said the Ashford Road bridge's existing
footings are "undermined and missing sections," is hydraulicly
inadequate, and that the substructure is rated "poor." However, despite
the deficiencies, the bridge is considered "safe" by CT DOT, even though
it has persisted long past its 75-year service life.

According to CT DOT's website on the upcoming project, the proposed
58-foot, 6-inch-long structure "will be comprised of prestressed
concrete deck units with a cast-in-place topping slab supported by
concrete abutments and flared wingwalls with foundations bearing on
bedrock and support a 24\[-foot\] wide roadway meeting standards. The
proposed structure with a 52\[-foot\]-wide hydraulic opening and the
roadway raised by 1 \[foot\] will eliminate roadway overtopping and
provide under-clearance during the 100-year design storm resulting in
improved hydraulic adequacy. The project includes installation of new
bridge and approach rail system meeting current safety standards and
elimination of scour critical condition. Approximately 385 \[feet\] of
roadway reconstruction is proposed including roadway drainage
improvements."

The new bridge, Dubina said, will have a 75-year service life with
minimal maintenance, will feature no weight restrictions, and due to the
flared wingwalls being on bedrock, it should eliminate all scour
concerns. New aesthetic improvements will also be included, including a
liner on the concrete that will simulate stones, as well as a metallic
bridge rail.

Because the current bridge is also part of the Natchaug Trail, minor
adjustments to the trail are also planned to accommodate for the
construction of the bridge, including crosswalks for pedestrians.

Once the project begins in spring 2027, Ashford Road will be closed in
both directions for approximately eight months. A detour is currently
planned that for drivers on the south side of Bigelow Brook, will mean
heading south on Ashford Road and Floeting Road, turning left onto North
Road, then left on Route 44, then left on Route 198 to access the center
of town. The detour is measured at 8.5 miles.

Right-of-way impacts associated with the proposed project include
partial permanent takes (4 properties), a drainage right-of-way (3
properties), permanent slope easements (4 properties), and a temporary
construction easement (1 property), along with rights to install gravel
pull-offs, relocate a trail, removing and resetting stone walls,
installing sediment control systems, and reconstructing a driveway.

[Video of the July 16 meeting may be viewed here](https://youtu.be/Yz8SH9Dik70?si=ORpUv_Ema6x8I1Qx). [Project plans may be
viewed here](https://portal.ct.gov/-/media/dot/documents/dprojects/project0038-0085/0038-0085_display_boards.pdf).
[The project's official CT DOT website can be viewed here](http://portal.ct.gov/doteastford38-85).
