---
title: Assessor's Notice to Taxpayers
author: Mary Hawley
---

All persons liable to pay taxes are hereby notified to declare all
tangible personal property owned by them as of October 1^st^. CGS
12-41(d) provides that the assessor must apply a 25% PENALTY for failure
to file by November 1^st^.

The Assessor's Office will mail declaration forms to all property owners
previously on record. Failure to receive a form does not negate the
requirements to declare. Forms are available online and in the
Assessor's Office.

**NOTE:** A declaration for real property or registered motor vehicles
are not necessary. Taxable personal property includes: ***unregistered
motor vehicles***, ***motor vehicles located in Connecticut but
registered in another state,*** office, manufacturing and farming
equipment, machinery, tools, leasehold improvements. Please call the
Assessor's Office for a full list or if you need clarification.

**VETERANS:** who served for more than ninety days during a time of war
or have been disabled must have recorded their honorable discharge with
the Town Clerk by October 1^st^ in order to receive an exemption against
their 2025 tax bill.

**ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBERS:** must submit an application to the
Assessor\'s Office in order to receive 2023 Motor Vehicle benefits no
later than December 2025. A copy of your ID is required.

**ADDITIONAL VETERAN'S EXEMPTION:** Increased exemptions are available
for those who meet the necessary income requirements and file with the
Assessor's Office by October 1^st^. Biennial filing is required, and
proof of income must be furnished at the time of application.

**HOMEOWNERS:** Connecticut law provides for Annual Tax Relief for
persons who are 65 years or older or totally disabled who meet necessary
qualifications. To be eligible for a benefit for the 2025 tax bill, an
application with proof of income and, if applicable, proof of total
disability must be filed during the following dates:

**HOMEOWNERS:** Feb. 1 through May 15 **\~** **RENTERS:** April 1
through Sept 30

**PERSONS PERMANENTLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED**, regardless of age, may
also apply for the benefits under the elderly program.

**AMBULANCE-TYPE VEHICLE,** used exclusively for the purpose of
transporting any medically incapacitated individual, except for payment,
may be eligible for exemption.

**TOTALLY AND PERMANTLY DISABLED PERSONS:** Any person under the age of
65 that has been awarded total disability must apply by October 1^st^ in
order to receive a \$1000 assessment exemption. Applicants must furnish
proof of award.

**FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT:** farmers must file a notarized M-28
exemption form on or before November 1^st^ annually to receive an
exemption for farm machinery.

**LAND CLASSIFICATION:** Persons seeking to apply under farm, for the
first time, must file an application between September 1^st^ and October
31^st^ with the Assessor's Office. Persons who have previously applied
need not reapply. Persons seeking to apply for forest must have the land
certified by a forester submitted by Oct. 1^st^

**MANUFACTURING MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT:** equipment used in the
manufacturing process may be allowed an exemption if certain guidelines
are met. A completed application must be filed by November 1^st^.

**NEW COMMERCIAL TRUCKS** with a gross rating in excess of 26,000 lbs.
should check with the Assessor's Office for tax exemption eligibility.
Applications must be completed and filed with the Assessor by November
1^st.^

**LOCAL OPTIONS:**

**FARM ABATEMENT:** An application must be submitted by the land owner
annually no later than November1st.

**LOCAL HOMEOWNERS PROGRAM;** Homeowners on the regular homeowner
program must apply for this annually. Bring income proofs in no later
than May 15^th^.

.

***[Most applications can be found on our town website.](https://www.eastfordct.gov/assessor)***

**FOR QUESTIONS ON ANY OF THESE PROGRAMS PLEASE CALL 228-9555.**
