---
title: Auction event to fund upcoming D.C. trip
author: Adam Minor
layoutNumber: 2
---

EASTFORD --- Eastford Elementary School's annual Washington D.C. field
trip for eighth graders has become a tradition that dates back at least
three decades, and if the Eastford School Auction Committee has its way,
it will be a tradition that continues for many more years to come.

Every May, eighth-grade students are whisked away via coach bus for a
four-day field trip that includes educational sightseeing, delving into
the history of the United States of America. Locations such as the
Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, the Jefferson Memorial, the
World War II, Korean War, and Vietnam memorials, Martin Luther King Jr.
Memorial, Ford's Theater, and Arlington National Cemetery, among many
other sights, are regularly featured. Recent trips have also included
excursions to Baltimore Orioles baseball games.

Over the years, the Eastford School Auction Committee has led the charge
to fundraise for the annual field trip, which costs more than \$1,000
per student, on average. The money goes toward transportation, lodging,
food, and other miscellaneous costs.

![Silent auction in the Elementary School gym](/assets/images/33-2-ees-auction.jpg)

Auction Committee Co-Chairman Charlie Kernan recently sat down with the
*Communicator* to preview the upcoming auction, which is scheduled for
Saturday, Nov. 16, starting at 5 p.m., at Eastford Elementary School.
The event will feature a live auction, a silent auction, raffle items,
food, and a bake sale --- all to raise money for the trip. In recent
years, the number of auction items has reached north of 100 unique and
donated pieces, from gift certificates, to art, hand-crafted items,
sports memorabilia, excursion experiences, appliances, and rare items.

"It takes a lot of work to make this happen," said Kernan, who added
that work begins months ahead of time, usually at the end of school in
June with a kickoff meeting that begins the process of drumming up
engagement and figuring out how to put the auction together. This year,
the Auction Committee is co-chaired by Kernan and Jeremy Barlow, who
both lead a group of about 12 people in organizing the event.

"We are always looking for more volunteers," Kernan said. "The more the
merrier. It's a lot of work getting out and building awareness, getting
donations. We are appreciative of the people that help us out. It can't
happen without volunteers and parents. We need as much involvement as we
can get."

While fundraising may sometimes be a challenge, small class sizes in
recent years have caused the committee to consolidate the trip to
include seventh grade students. Such a situation occurred in 2022, so in
2023, the school forewent the trip, which gave the committee more time
to fundraise. This year (2025), the committee plans to go back to just
sending grade 8, while next year's trip (2026) is currently planned as a
grade 7-8 trip because of the current seventh grade's smaller class
size.

"The cost has become pretty robust," Kernan said, who said that despite
the price tag which seems to rise every year (and currently sits at
north of \$1,000 per student), the committee is currently "in a good
place" as it pertains to being able to cover the cost for the currently
planned eighth-grade trip in May 2025.

"We are lucky that people in town and surrounding towns --- the people
who live in this community --- are so generous," he said, adding a
particular name --- David Jakubowski --- who Kernan described as a "a
pillar of our auction," as someone he wanted to publicly thank.

As for the auction itself, proceeds are divided on a sliding scale,
starting with the eighth grade, then divided amongst grades 5 through 7.
This approach allows each class multiple years to fundraise for the
trip.

"My goal for the auction is to do better than we did last year," Kernan
said. "Our population is growing, so one of the things that comes with
that is a larger expense for the auction itself. This is such a unique
tradition to us, \[so we hope\] to continue to grow as our community
grows, and continue this unique tradition."

On top of the educational value of visiting our nation's Capital, Kernan
added that a large trip like Washington D.C. always seems to have a
unifying effect on the students that attend. These effects are hard to
quantify, but are very valuable nonetheless.

"It's something they get to experience together," he said, mentioning
exceptionally powerful moments on recent trips at Ford's Theater (the
site of Abraham Lincoln's assassination), past war monuments, the Martin
Luther King Jr. Memorial, and Arlington National Cemetery, which serves
as an especially poignant location and local connection for Eastford
residents --- because it is the location of the gravesite of Eastford
hero Joseph E. Phaneuf (SSG U.S. Army), who died in 2006 in Afghanistan.

"Having those moments with their parents and friends that they can
cherish for the rest of their lives --- pictures and shared experiences
--- those are the moments you talk about when you're older," he said.

At the end of the day, the Washington, D.C. field trip is an experience
that serves as a culmination of the education offered at Eastford
Elementary School over nine years, and the auction is designed as the
major fundraising event to make it all happen. Kernan said that as of
this writing, the committee is "confident" they will reach their goals,
but every cent --- and every minute of volunteered time --- matters.

"People have been responding well," he said. "We have a great committee.
Without them this wouldn't happen. But we also need parent involvement
and donations of time. The more people we have to help out, the more we
can put together. The only thing that limits us is the availability of
people and the time they have to give. The more people get involved, the
more we can spread out."

For more information on the auction, or to donate time or money to the
field trip fund, call the school at (860) 974-1130, or e-mail
auction\@eastfordct.org.

"If you can, please come out and support the auction," Kernan said. "As
you walk around, you might even find Christmas presents. Walk around,
provide a donation --- any donation monetarily or through services or
products goes toward the wellness of the D.C. trip for Eastford
students."
