---
title: EIFC Update
author: Jeannine Spink
layoutNumber: 35
---

Emergency responses have increased. July -- 18 responses - August -- 18
responses. From January 1, 2024 to mid-September, we have responded to
173 emergencies. For 2023, we responded 237 times. we anticipate
surpassing the 237 responses.

August and September were months for mandatory testing. All members are
mandated to have a full physical examination annually administered by an
OSHA approved physician which includes vision, hearing, lung function,
motor skills assessment, respirator use evaluation and EKG.

Drills are scheduled every Wednesday evening at the firehouse. During
July, August and September drills consisted of pump/hose advancement and
command, practice trauma skills, review documentation forms, SCBA Flow
Test and Pump Test, monthly truck checks, walk through the Eastford
School, boat operations, allergic reaction and Line Officers.

A major mandatory test is an annual OSHA Respiratory Clearance & Fit
Testing for members who participate in interior and exterior fire
suppression and suspected carbon monoxide exposure. According to the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Standard 1910.134,
if a respirator (SCBA-Self Contained Breathing Apparatus) is necessary
for job performance, all departments are required to have a respiratory
protection program in place. A respirator clearance clears the member to
wear a respirator, it does not medically clear a firefighter for duty,
thus a full physical examination including EKG is administered. Once
cleared for respirator use, the member is required to have an annual
mandatory respirator fit test, or whenever there is a change in the
facepiece or any visual observation of changes in the member's physical
condition that could affect respirator mask fit.

SCBA's must meet testing frequency requirements at least monthly on a
calibrated breathing machine, i.e. visual checks of components such as
straps, lenses and tubing, no excess wear and tear, ensure air cylinder
is full.

Members, along with our mutual aid departments who participated in the
Congregational Church fire, were invited to the Eastford School on July
6 with thanks for our efforts from Pastor Moran for a fight well fought.
All who responded were presented with a gift card to a local restaurant.

Chief Beaudoin and Deputy Chief Roy met with Senator Gordon to touch
base on bonding requests for the communications upgrade and siding
repair project. Donations to the project are appreciated and can be sent
to EIFC, PO Box 333, Eastford, CT 06242 -- Memo line: Building Project.

A DEEP grant was submitted for the purchase of 2 battery powered leaf
blowers, 4 lengths of 1 3/4" hose, 4 lengths of 2 1/2" and six pagers.

Fall is near with winter not far behind. You can help us protect you by
visibly displaying your green house number signs at the beginning of
your driveway and cleaning around the entry. If you don't have one, or
need a replacement, stop by the firehouse any Wednesday and get your
FREE sign and numbers.
