---
title: New Recycling Regulations Announced
author: Board of Selectmen
---
EASTFORD --- The Town of Eastford contracts with Casella Waste Systems
in Willimantic, CT, for hauling and disposal of trash and recyclables
from the Transfer Station. Casella offers significant municipal rebates
for clean cardboard. In addition, the elimination of clean cardboard
from Eastford's general household trash will reduce that trash's tonnage
and cost to the town.

• Recyclable Cardboard: Cardboard shipping boxes (flattened, packaging
tape removed), corrugated cardboard, pizza boxes (empty with no
food/grease residue), uncoated cardboard egg cartons, cereal boxes
(without inside plastic or wax paper liner), paper box board (tissue
boxes), and paper towel and toilet paper rolls.

• Not Recyclable Cardboard: Cardboard with stuck-on food or grease
stains, 'cardboard-like' milk and juice containers (they have plastic
coating that is not recyclable), waxed or treated cardboard, paper cups,
paper or magazines laminated with plastic, mail/mailing envelopes,
books, Styrofoam, and spiral wound containers used to package products
such as frozen orange juice, potato chips, nuts, dried fruit, oatmeal,
and dough for cookies and biscuits (these containers are made of paper
with metal or plastic resin liners, plastic or metal bottoms/rims.)

New signage has been placed at the Transfer Station to assist the public
in using the proper receptacles for their recyclables. Please do not put
non-cardboard items in the cardboard-only bin, as this would contaminate
the load and adversely impact the town's ability to collect Casella's
rebates. Single stream recycling collection mixes all recyclable paper
fibers and containers (paper, plastic, metal, and glass) together.
Casella's processing system separates the various recyclables from
Eastford's single stream recycling bin for the recycling activities.
Casella is required to inspect incoming loads for potential violations
of Connecticut recycling regulations. Plastic bags and film, Styrofoam,
full/partially full drink bottles, wood, yard waste, packaging
insulation, and food waste, are all examples of items which result in
load contamination.

Eastford's rating for a recent audit by Casella was "clean" thanks to
the awareness and diligence of our citizens and transfer station
employees! Please continue to help the town comply with State recycling
law and prevent rejection of single stream loads by emptying all
containers before placing them in the single stream bin and by ensuring
that only paper, plastic, metal, and glass items are placed there. In
addition to following signage, the Transfer Station attendant can assist
you in the correct placement of your trash items. Please call the
Selectmen's Office at 860-974-0133, ext. 3, if you encounter any issues
or require additional information. Thank you for your full cooperation!

*- Submitted by the Eastford Selectmen's Office*
