---
author: Adam Minor
title: "CCE fundraiser is 'fabulously fun'"
layoutNumber: 3
---

EASTFORD --- In April 2023, the Congregational Church of Eastford
suffered a terrible loss, as its church building burned to the ground.
More than a year later, the community has continued to rally to support
rebuilding efforts, and on Saturday, July 6, an event was held that
strived to make a sizeable donation to the cause.

The "Fabulously Fun Family Fundraiser," held at Eastford Elementary
School, mixed children's games, an auction, a concert by the Stephen
Bell Trio, and many other fundraising activities into a family event
that brought several area churches and townspeople together for a worthy
cause.

Herm Barlow, one of the organizers, said, "I have been pleasantly
surprised by how widespread the support for this effort has been,
crossing many cultural and faith values. This demonstrates that in
northeast Connecticut, community is still highly valued."

The event also took the time to honor area fire departments, including
Eastford Independent Fire Company, with a special gift of thanks.

As of press time, the FFFF event had raised more than \$31,000, with
counting still ongoing, according to Barlow. This money will be donated
to the CCE Fire Fund, which will help rebuild the church on a new site
on John Perry Road.

In an interview with WINY Radio in April, CCE Pastor Mike Moran said
that despite the loss of the building, God has been blessing the
congregation.

"The Lord is really blessing us," Moran said. "We are strong, we have
seen a lot of growth in the church. ... We also have been able to
sustain all of our work in the local community. ... Right from the
beginning, the kindness and generosity of the community has been a
blessing, just profound, and they continue to be supportive ... Eastford
has been so, so good to us."

*- Additional quotes for this story were obtained from WINY Radio*
