---
title: "<i>Communicator</i> Begins New Era of Eastford News"
layoutNumber: 1
author: ["Liz Munson Scranton and Adam Minor"]
---

*"Looking back on the last 32 years, and ahead to the future"*

*Photos courtesy Liz Scranton*

![Eastford seniors are seen preparing the January 2000 edition of the
Eastford Communicator in December 1999](/assets/images/33-1-02SeniorsCommunicator.jpg)
*Eastford seniors are seen preparing the January 2000 edition of the
<i>Eastford Communicator</i> in December 1999*

<!-- picture missing ![Jon Munson, one of the founders of the Eastford Communicator, which
debuted in April 1992]()
*Jon Munson, one of the founders of the Eastford *Communicator*, which
debuted in April 1992.*-->

Elizabeth Scranton (n√©e Munson) was 8 years old when her family moved to
Eastford. She had spent previous years visiting Crystal Pond in the
summertime and visiting family, but officially became a resident in
November of 1991. Her father, Jon Munson, was always passionate about
the news, history, and politics.

"He was not happy with the fact that not one news organization covered
Eastford happenings well," Scranton said about her father. "With so many
organizations in town, no one knew when they met or where meetings were
being held."

One day, Scranton said her father was at the Town Office Building
speaking with newly elected First Selectman John Schmitt, when another
Eastford resident, Sue Orcutt, came in to speak with him regarding this
very issue.

"\[Orcutt\] had similar feelings regarding the news and things happening
in Eastford," Scranton said, "and when speaking with John Schmitt, he
introduced her to my father. The two spoke and came up with a plan to
meet and discuss how they might conquer this informational discord."

The early 1990s was a time of technological simplicity. The internet was
still a few years away, as were cell phones. Cable television was a
luxury. News was brought to the people via newspaper, magazines, radio,
local word of mouth, phone call, or the local broadcast via "bunny ears"
antennae. Computers were not in every household, and to create a
newspaper, or lay one out, you needed a very specific set of specialty
skills.

Nevertheless, a small group of Eastford residents pursued the project.
There were a few meetings over the winter months about the name of the
paper, content, roles, mailings, timelines, how it would be paid for,
and all the other logistical considerations one must take into account
when starting a local news source. The one consistent theme for what
would become "The Communicator" was to not be political, to inform the
residents of Eastford of what was happening in town, and what was coming
up in the next month.

"My father spent several evenings in the basement of Barbara Klare's
house on Crystal Pond creating the first issue," Scranton recalled. "At
the time, she was the only one in the group with a computer capable of
taking on the task."

The first issue of "The Eastford Communicator" was published in April
1992. Scranton said that once the first issue was published, there was a
lot of positive feedback from the community --- and people could not
wait for the second issue. It came in June 1992.

"As I was reading those first issues, I was amazed at all the content it
provided to the town," Scranton said. "The Hiking Club told of which
trails were open or closed due to hazards and when the next Gardening
Club meeting would be. There was an article welcoming newcomers and
information on the next potluck dinner. There was information from the
principal about what the school children were focusing on that month.
There was also a piece focusing on a local individual in town, John
Savage, written by Sue Orcutt, who was a state representative, former
first selectman of the town and agriculturalist."

While interviewing Savage, Orcutt met his wife, Katherine, or "Kate" as
she was more affectionately known. Orcutt expressed the need for people
to join the little paper, and thus came on staff as the treasurer.
Little did she know she would eventually become co-editor, and then
chief editor.

"Once the paper hit its stride, Kate and my father would spend two or
three evenings laying out the articles on his computer and scanner,"
Scranton remembered. "They had a contest to see if someone could produce
a drawing/logo for the little paper and it appeared in issue 11. People
would send in articles via snail mail and my father would scan them in
or retype them depending on how much space was needed. Sometimes, there
would be arguments between \[Kate Savage and Jon Munson\] regarding
articles received because the paper did not want to be a space for
individual opinions. However, if there was a topic in town that affected
most families and someone submitted a thorough opinion, it might have
made it to print."

Scranton added that there were many other individuals who helped make
"The Communicator" a success. The publication had such positions as a
telephone coordinator, events manager, billing manager, treasurer, and
mailing liaison. There were groups of people, such as the senior
citizens, who would spend an evening putting labels on so that the paper
could make it into each household. There were also those who went out to
businesses and asked them to place an advertisement, since many
businesses did not know there was a paper in Eastford.

"All of these individuals and groups supported 'The Communicator' and it
gave everyone a sense of community and togetherness," Scranton said. "It
is my belief that without these individuals, 'The Communicator' would
not have been as successful as it was in those early years."

Jon Munson died suddenly in May 2001, and the torch was fully passed to
Kate Savage. She continued on for a few more years until Debbie Yazo
took over, and eventually, the role was taken on by Carol Davidge in
2009. With her long career in journalism, Davidge knew firsthand the
impact that the news --- or lack thereof --- could have on a community.

Eventually, as technology became more user-friendly, fewer and fewer
individuals volunteered at "The Communicator." Every once in a while,
there would be a note from the editor requesting assistance, but fewer
people became involved. Eventually, Davidge became the only person
responsible for putting out the publication every month, and with her at
the helm, the publication endured for 14 more years under her care.

![Carol Davidge](/assets/images/33-1-03CarolDavidge.jpg)
*Carol Davidge, the editor of the *Communicator* from 2009 until her
death in August 2023.*

Sadly, in August 2023, Davidge passed away suddenly, seemingly ending
the legacy of town-wide communication that she, and those that came
before her, cared for so deeply.

## A Legacy Continued

It was not long after Davidge's death that questions about the future of
the *Communicator* began to arise. Was it finished? Would it even be
possible to pick up the pieces and continue? Because Davidge was
involved so completely in every aspect of the publication, there was no
one immediately in line to take over if the unthinkable happened.
Unfortunately, when it did, the future seemed uncertain.

A group of about a dozen Eastford citizens decided in the fall of 2023
to at least look into the possibility of bringing back the
*Communicator*. After several months of going through Carol\'s computer
and paper files to determine where things stood when she passed,
identifying roles that people could take to resurrect the paper,
brainstorming, inquiring, researching, and workshopping, a plan began to
formulate, and a group of five people emerged that would eventually
become the new Board of Directors, led by Eastford residents Arthur
Brodeur, Randal Chinnock, Nancy Gingras, Michelle Palulis, and Julia
Torcellini. This group solidified the Communicator as an official
501\(c)(3) nonprofit, reconnected with advertisers, added a Facebook
page, re-established communication channels, created a new logo, updated
mailing lists, obtained a nonprofit postal permit, and finally, began to
look into the process of hiring an editor.

Nancy Gingras, who was a part of the process from the beginning, said
the large task that faced that initial group began to seem more and more
like a reality.

"I learned that there was a meeting being held in September 2023 to
discuss the possibility of reviving *The Communicator*, and I was
interested in attending, as I felt its demise left a large void in
communicating town happenings and news to our community, and I was
curious to learn about what a 'new *Communicator'* might entail,"
Gingras said. "Little did I know that night when about 10 of us sat
around the table at the Town Office Building, asking questions and
expressing opinions, that I would become heavily involved in helping to
make it a reality 11 months later. It\'s been a lot of work, but the
overwhelmingly positive response we\'ve received from everyone I\'ve
contacted about the endeavor has made it all worthwhile. I\'m incredibly
grateful to everyone who has helped --- all the volunteers, our
advertisers, donors, and the many behind the scenes people who have
contributed in some way."

The search for a new editor ended in July 2024, when the new Board of
Directors decided to name longtime Eastford resident Adam Minor as the
new managing editor of the *Communicator*. Minor has an extensive
history in local media. He was the managing editor of local publishing
company Stonebridge Press for nearly a decade, a company that produced
*The Woodstock Villager* weekly newspaper, a publication that often
covered Eastford events. He has 12 years of journalism experience, and
even after his journalism career ended in 2017, Minor said his love of
writing and local news has never wavered. It was that, as well as a
desire to continue on Davidge's legacy, that ultimately persuaded him to
take on the role of managing editor for the new *Communicator*.

![Adam Minor](/assets/images/33-1-04AdamMinor.jpg)
*Adam Minor, the new managing editor of the <i>Eastford Communicator.</i>*

"I worked a lot with Carol on content for the *Communicator*, even when
I was with the *Villager*," Minor said. "I loved working with her. She
was so kind and considerate. She loved this town. She dedicated herself
to it. Her caring was contagious, and I admired her commitment to
continuing on the *Communicator*."

Once Minor was on board, momentum began to quicken, as it was decided
that the new *Communicator* would re-launch on Aug. 1, 2024.

"It's been a lot of preparation, but it has also been like riding a
bike," Minor said, referring to his past career in journalism. "It's
been a lot of fun. Many people have stepped up to either support us,
advertise with us, or write for us. It has been a true team effort. I'm
excited to see how the town responds to this new *Communicator*."

Indeed, Davidge's fingerprints remain on these pages, which is
understandable because of her influence in the lives of those that have
carried this project on. For *Communicator* board member Julia
Torcellini, Davidge's influence is hard to calculate.

"Carol was a quiet influencer in our community who touched people\'s
lives in a big way, one by one," she said. "I know she has positively
shaped my homeschooled children and expanded their world with what she
did for them and taught them. She was so humble. I don\'t think she ever
understood who she was to us. What I have gleaned from Carol has enabled
me to be part of this project of bringing back the *Communicator*."

*Communicator* board member Randal Chinnock had similar sentiments.

"When I travel around the country --- or even abroad --- I always like
to read the local newspapers," he said. "I'm always interested in the
happenings, breaking news, and topics of interest to the communities I
visit. So, when I moved to Eastford in 2010, I was delighted to discover
*The Eastford Communicator*. After reading just a few issues, I felt
like I was beginning to know some history of the town, become aware of
current events, and understand issues of concern."

"Along the way, I met Carol, who embraced me with her warmth and
enthusiasm about the community," Chinnock continued. "It was truly a sad
day when she left us, though I knew immediately that the paper must
carry on. I think that she'd be thrilled to see \[our\] vision of the
future, where grants may be won, a small staff employed, and our mission
expanded to include original reporting on local --- or even regional ---
newsworthy events."

First Selectman Deborah Richards added her well wishes for the project,
adding she believed it would be a continuation of the "vision" Davidge
--- and those that came before her --- had for the *Communicator*.

"Carol Davidge had a wonderful vision for the *Communicator* and for the
Eastford community," Richards said. "A small group of residents had an
idea to share local news and increase awareness of events happening in
our community. It's a way to bring us all together, to share and
highlight the greatness of Eastford and all the people who make up our
amazing town. I look forward to reading the *Communicator* once again
and having another avenue for our community to share information and to
become involved in our great town. Congratulations to the *Communicator*
committee who have recreated a community icon, while honoring the
authors' vision."

Looking to the future of the *Communicator,* Minor added it would
continue to involve as the needs of the community evolve.

"I think the future of the Communicator is bright," Minor said. "I think
Carol would be ecstatic that we are picking up where she left off, and I
hope we make her proud with what comes next. At the end of the day, we
are all doing this for the same reasons she did. We love this town. We
love this community. We want to inform, and along the way, maybe we'll
even have a little fun too. Jon Munson, Sue Orcutt, Debbie Yazo, Kate
Savage, Carol Davidge --- the legacy of everyone that has ever
contributed to this project --- we hope their legacies are honored with
what is to come."

"It's my hope that once again, we as a community can come together and
support our little slice of media and continue to 'communicate' around
town," said Liz Scranton.
