---
title: "Eastford Baptist Church Update"
author: Timothy R. Howard Jr.
permalink: "/33/1/ebc-update/"
layoutNumber: 21
---
Greetings Eastford folks! My name is Tim Howard and I am the pastor of
Eastford Baptist Church. It is an honor and privilege to be the shepherd
of EBC and it is an even greater privilege to be a part of the Eastford
community.

One of the unique aspects about the Town of Eastford is how integrated
the two churches in town are with the entirety of the community, with
this column being an example of this. Eastford embraces the virtues and
necessity of faith, which is something I am sure many would agree, is
lacking but needed in our society as a whole. Thus, because of this rare
gift, our church strives to be as big of a blessing as we can be to our
little town, maintaining our Lord's mandate to both love God and love
you, our neighbors (Matthew 22:36-40).

Just to give you a little more background about our church, Eastford
Baptist Church was founded in 1793, known originally as The Fourth
Baptist Church of North Ashford. The Town of Eastford broke away from
the Town of Ashford, in 1847 and thus the name of the church changed
along with the establishment of the town. We are historically Baptist in
our theology --- however, we are independent of any organized
denomination (i.e. the Southern Baptist Convention, American Baptist
Convention, etc.). This simply means we are not governed by any outside
entity, rather we are completely autonomous, being funded and governed
ultimately by the people who make up our congregation.

We are also a Bible-believing, Bible-teaching church. This means if you
visit us for worship, you will hear a sermon that is highly educational,
delving into the history, grammar, and context of the Bible, as we make
our way, verse by verse, through the text. At the same time, I try to
make sure that we understand both the relevance and application to our
lives today. I also give opportunities to ask questions of the sermon
every Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. We are a family-friendly church, offering
Sunday School every week at 9:15 a.m. for all ages, children and teen
club programs on Wednesdays in the fall, Vacation Bible School in the
summer, as well as a variety of other fun activities geared to help your
kids grow in their faith. We also strive to be a community-oriented
church, striving to help and serve our neighbors however we can. Some
examples of this include opening our doors to the Eastford Food Pantry,
organizing roadside clean-up days, hosting Red Cross blood drives, as
well as serving and helping with a variety of town-wide activities. If
you live in Eastford, chances are you have been blessed by one of, if
not many of our faithful members.

Again, it is a blessing to be a part of our Eastford community! Please
feel free to contact me any time if you have any questions about our
church! I also invite you to check out one of our worship services on
Sunday at 10:30 a.m.!
