---
title: Eastford Independent Fire Company Update
author: Jeannine Spink
layoutNumber: 17
---

Thank you to the residents of Eastford who have helped sustain us
through support and donations. Thank you to the Communicator for giving
us the opportunity to tell the town what we do.

But we need your help. We are still a long way from the estimated
\$75,000 goal needed to complete renovations and structural repairs to
the firehouse.

The EIFC is steeped in history. We have been in existence since December
1917, the building becoming a reality in 1938, incorporation in 1942,
and holding our first inhouse meeting on May 1, 1951, at the location
you see today. Your support is crucial to maintain our station and its
future.

At our Annual Meeting on June 4, we celebrated our 82nd year of
incorporation. Our current officers are: Chief: Doug Beaudoin; Deputy
Chief: James Roy; Fire Captain: Nate Fabian; Fire Lieutenants: Gordon
Spink, Dave Jakubowski; EMS Lieutenant: Steve Kitson; President: James
Roy; Vice President: Jeannine Spink.

Service pins were awarded to: Colton Garrison -- 5 years; Nate Fabian --
15 years (2023); James Roy -- 20 years; Gordon Spink -- 40 years.

Between 2021 through 2023, we welcomed new members: David Garrison,
Jason Albrecht, Jonathan Lynch, and Kyle Ravenelle. Returning to duty
were Veteran Members Lincoln Budd, Dennis Desaulnier, Marvin Neely,
Gordon Spink, and Will Spink.

Our participation in town events has never wavered. We sponsored our
64th year of the Citizenship Award to an 8th grade graduating student at
the Eastford School. This year's recipient was Marley Jane Hutchings.
Seventy fire department flags were installed at the Grove Cemetery, two
at the Ashford Cemetery, and five at the Southbridge Cemetery to honor
deceased firefighters and auxiliary, Fire Prevention at EES, Halloween
Trunk or Treat, Xmas in July, Memorial Day Parade, Experience Eastford,
Silas Bunnell 5K Race at the Boy Scout Camp in Ashford, CPR/First aid
classes at EES for grades 6, 7, and 8.

Call volume has increased appreciably. They are: 162 in 2021; 154 in
2022; 237 in 2023; which is 60 more than previously reported. In June
2024 alone, we responded to 32 emergencies. Technology has been
incorporated into our accountability system to track inventory, trucks,
equipment via PSTRAX.

Monetary donations are welcomed to help us achieve our renovation goal.
We are a 501(c)(3) non-profit. Donations can be sent to EIFC, P.O. Box
333, Eastford, CT. 06242. We look forward to keeping the town updated on
the progress we make.
