---
author: Eastford Grove Cemetery Association Inc.
title: A Message from the Board of Trustees
layoutNumber: 18
---

Around 1960, the Grove Cemetery Association began selling plots to
Eastford residents in the newly developed, south section. At the time,
there were only six-space, full burial plots available in that section.
If you or your family purchased one of these, you may have much more
space than you would ever use.

With family members moving out of town, and the trend of cremation
rather than full burial, we believe there will, unfortunately, be many
vacant spots in the cemetery that can never be used. To clarify, a
single plot space measures 4' X 9' and allows one full vault burial plus
two cremation burials, or three cremation burials. In other words, the
originally purchased, six-space plot can accommodate six full burials,
plus 12 cremation burials, or 18 cremation burials.

Since Grove Cemetery has no expansion room beyond its present borders,
the Board of Trustees is urging plot owners to donate or sell (at the
original price of purchase) unused plot space back to the Association.
Single spaces are currently sold for more money (\$1,200) than they were
60 years ago, so the tax-deductible impact for a donation of plot space
could be sizeable. Since unused plot space cannot be sold by the owner
or inherited owners, or given away except to the Association, please
consider a donation of unused space back to the Eastford Grove Cemetery
Association. Thank you.

- Bylaw-Article Eleven --- Ownership Rights: "...Plots/spaces may not be
resold by the purchaser for any reason whatsoever. The Association may
buy back ownership rights to a plot/ space from a purchaser or his/her
family in the event the plot/space is no longer needed. The Association
will pay only the amount of money originally paid by the purchaser less
all concomitant costs that may be incurred because of the buy-back. No
interest monies of any kind shall be paid to the purchaser for any
reason."
