---
title: Legislative Update
author: State Sen. Jeff Gordon
layoutNumber: 5
---

I am working to help make Connecticut more affordable; historic income
tax cuts for low- and middle-income people and families; earned Income
Tax Credit increase for low-income workers; and expansion of existing
tax exemptions on pension and retirement funds for seniors.

In 2023, the Legislature unanimously renewed revenue and spending caps,
supported by the Governor and the Comptroller, to keep state finances on
an even keel without over-relying on taxes to pay for things. The state
paid down billions of the state's \$80 billion unfunded liabilities and
debt. Interest payments saved are used to fund things like public
education.

This year, I fought to keep the responsible and balanced state budget
within the spending cap. However, increased costs of expanded Medicaid
coverage for undocumented immigrants and major budget adjustments this
year create at least an estimated \$700 million deficit for next year. I
am very concerned that you will pay for it through higher taxes and/or
cuts to towns. This is unaffordable and unresponsible. I voted against
it. I supported a separate proposal to keep necessary items funded,
increase support for non-profits and towns, and keep the budget
balanced.

Last year, I worked to stop state education cuts to our towns: \$2.6
million in the 35th District and \$121,000 for Eastford. I also worked
to increase public education funding by about \$200 million. This year,
I defended these funds and worked to reform the ECS formula. A 2024
proposal to provide \$80 million to help towns like Eastford pay for
increasing special education costs was not taken up by the majority
party. I am working with others to find a way to pay these costs without
making towns raise property taxes to do so.

On July 1, electricity rates increased. Although the supply part of your
bill dropped around \$40/month for average electricity use (around \$440
cumulative savings total), state mandated public benefits charges hiked
your bill by around \$48/month (around \$528 tax you must pay). So, your
bill will rise around \$8/month. Actions by the Legislature in 2017
before I joined the Senate subsidized the Millstone nuclear power plant.
The Governor issued a pandemic executive order to stop electricity shut
offs for unpaid bills. You pay for these. I supported using federal ARPA
money to pay these costs. I supported having public benefits mandates
put in the state budget, which would save you around \$210/year. But
these proposals were not taken up by the majority party. I have
supported meaningful laws last year and this year to enhance the state's
regulatory authority of utilities' performance and review of rate hikes,
and to secure long-term electricity purchasing agreements to lessen
costs to rate payers.

In future updates I can let you know more about what is going on. I am
out and about all towns in the Senate District (including Eastford). I
hold office hours in person and virtually. Reach out to me any time. I
look forward to hearing from you. Visit
[ctsenaterepublicans.com/home-gordon/](https://ctsenaterepublicans.com/home-gordon/), call my office at (800)
842-1421, e-mail me at [jeffrey.gordon@cga.ct.gov](mailto:jeffrey.gordon@cga.ct.gov), or visit my Facebook
page at [www.facebook.com/senatorjeffgordon](https://www.facebook.com/senatorjeffgordon).
