---
title: Schools Update
author: Donna Leake
layoutNumber: 14
---
August is typically the time when families and students reluctantly
allow thoughts of school to begin to make their way into their minds.
However, before the school year ended in June, preparations were already
being made for the 2024-25 school year.

At its meeting on June 13, our dedicated Board of Education approved the
final purchases from the 2023-24 school operating budget. With the
positive vote of the Town at the June 11 Town meeting the BOE secured a
2024-25 school budget in the amount of \$4,610,243 that will allow for
the continuation of quality educational programming for all our
students.

While we continue to search for a second full-time custodian, Lory
Kneeland, our daytime custodian, has been quite busy, with the support
of part-time summer helpers, cleaning, painting and making repairs
throughout the school. The district and school administrative teams are
focused on implementing procedures and protocols that will make the
return to school for EES staff on Aug. 26 (and students on Aug. 28) a
welcoming and wonderful experience. All families with students attending
Eastford Elementary School will be receiving a letter from Principal
Carole McCombe filled with many important details about the beginning of
the school year.

If you are new to Eastford, please be sure to contact the Eastford
Elementary School office to register your children, including those of
high school age, as soon as possible. Details concerning the
registration process, and other important school and district
information, including the 2024-25 school calendar, as well as current
district and school policies can be found on our district/school
website, www.eastfordct.org. Please note, however, that information for
all Eastford high school students is best accessed on their respective
high school websites.

EASTCONN will once again be providing school bus transportation services
for our students. As we move closer to the start of school, information
will be provided by the school and on the website that will provide
families with information on how you can access bus routes and
additional transportation information.

We are happy to announce, that based on our past success, we will once
again be offering, through grant funding, free after-school programming
to all students in kindergarten through grade 8. For K-8 students, the
grant covers the cost of all after-school childcare and participation in
any after-school enrichment activities. However, we do charge fees for
the use of the childcare program in the morning for all attendees.
Unfortunately, the grant does not cover preschool-aged children, so fees
for both the morning and afternoon sessions will be assessed on a
sliding scale based on family income for children who are not yet in
kindergarten.

There are several locations offering free meals through the USDA Summer
Meals Program to children 18 and younger. To find a location, please
visit [www.fns.usda.gov/summerfoodrocks](www.fns.usda.gov/summerfoodrocks) or call 1-866-348-6479. If
you are interested in additional information on the program, you can
visit the website at
[www.fns.usda.gov/sfsp/summer-food-service-program](http://www.fns.usda.gov/sfsp/summer-food-service-program).

I am excited to welcome all our new and returning Eastford families,
staff and students to a new and exciting year of learning in the 2024-25
school year. In the meantime, I wish you continued enjoyment of the
summer days. You are also invited to contact me at
[dleake@eastfordct.org](mailto:dleake@eastfordct.org) if you have questions or concerns and/or would
like to schedule an appointment. Of course, please feel welcome to stop
by to say hello before our regularly scheduled school BOE meetings.
