---
title: Town Hikes Transfer Station Fee to $100
author: Adam Minor
layoutNumber: 2
---

EASTFORD --- If you picked up your Transfer Station stickers this past
month, you may have noticed a bigger dent in your wallet as a result.

That's because during its June 10 meeting, the Board of Selectmen voted
unanimously to increase the town's Transfer Station permit fee from \$60
to \$100 as of July 3 --- a move officials say is necessary to try to
maintain the services it provides, which covers disposal of everything
from tires, mattresses, brush, appliances, bulky waste, propane tanks,
electronics, and oil, as well as recycling.

First Selectman Deborah Richards said the move is a way to continue
offsetting the ever-increasing costs of operating the Transfer Station.
While the move was met with plenty of complaints, Richards said that
when compared to other towns, Eastford's fee is "reasonable."

"We're just trying to balance it all," Richards said during a
conversation with the Communicator on July 10. "We were looking at
different towns, and looking at how we could balance everything with
what we pay out. We're just trying to balance out the funds."

Richards added that over the years, the Transfer Station used to get
paid for different materials collected at the Transfer Station. Those
revenues which consisted of textiles, electronics, and appliances, have
consistently dwindled. Because of this, the town could no longer hold
steady at \$60 per year.

Even with the increase, Eastford's Transfer Station fee is "very
reasonably priced," Richards said. "If you look at the towns around us,
none of them are as little as us."

Indeed, a cursory look at surrounding towns reveals a stunning
difference in transfer station fees. Neighboring Woodstock, for example,
according to [a chart provided by the Board of Selectmen](/assets/pdf/33-1-ts-comparison.pdf), charges \$220 a
year for a single-family household, which includes only one permit
(Eastford issues two). Pomfret closed its Transfer Station years ago,
but offers residents permits in Woodstock and Brooklyn, the Woodstock
permits only being available to 50 residents at \$270 per permit, and
with only three planned bulky waste disposal events throughout the year.
In Union, trash is disposed of with a pay-per-bag system. Similarly, in
Chaplin, waste is disposed of by paying per cubic yard (\$10-\$35). In
Ashford and Union, the transfer stations are operated using tax dollars.

Comparatively, trash pickup services by Casella Waste Systems (which
purchased Willimantic Waste Paper Co. in July 2021) in Willimantic can
cost more than \$100 quarterly, according to several Eastford residents
we talked to for this story. This does not include bulky waste, and
other services employed by a transfer station.

"Municipal waste is a huge issue," Richards said. "Our Transfer Station
Committee is always looking at ways to make our Transfer Station more
efficient."

While the \$100 sticker price tag might sting initially, Richards said
she was unsure if it would hold there for a specific amount of time.

"Right now, we are holding," she said.

## New Recycling Guidelines in Effect

New recycling guidelines are now in effect for the town's Transfer
Station. Paper is now included with cans, glass, and plastics, while the
cardboard recycling station is now exclusively for cardboard boxes.
