---
title: Calendar
---

*Calendar entries must be sent to the editor no later than the 15th of
the month preceding publishing. Please send all calendar content to
<eastfordnews@gmail.com>. Please limit calendar submissions to less than
100 words.*

## Ongoing

Adult Community Volleyball is held each Monday at 6:30 p.m., at Eastford
Baptist Church, 133

Union Rd., Eastford, CT 06242. Join us for a few games of casual
volleyball! No need to be a
professional! Just come and have some free fun with friends and make new
ones! No
registration required.

## April

### Thursday, April 3

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack, and time of free play. 

### Saturday, April 5

Pomfret Eastford Little League (PELL) will host its Field Clean Up Days
on Saturday, April 5, and Saturday, April 12. The Pomfret Field cleanup
will be held Saturday, April 5, starting at 10 a.m. The field is located
at 63 Hampton Rd., Pomfret. The Eastford Field cleanup will be held
Saturday, April 12, starting at 10 a.m. The field is located at 163
Eastford Rd., Eastford. All ages are welcome! Questions can be emailed
to <pellbaseball@gmail.com>. Hope to see you there!

### Sunday, April 6

Eastford Baptist Church and the Congregational Church of Eastford will
host a Town Wide Cleanup on Sunday, April 6. Meet at the Town Office
Building for a free hot dog lunch. Clean-up will be conducted from 1-3
p.m. Meet back at the Town Office Building at 3 p.m. for ice cream.
[Register online here to help](https://eastfordbaptist.churchcenter.com/registrations).

### Tuesday, April 8

Eastford Public Library hosts a book discussion about The Sunflower
Sisters for Quiet Corner Reads author Martha Hall Kelly at 6:30 p.m.
Tickets are now on sale for her author talk at the Mansion at Bald Hill
in Woodstock. Limited number of tickets are available to purchase at the
library's front desk.

Ragged Hill Woods Environmental Science Programs begin on Tuesday, April
8, at Windham Tolland 4-H Camp, 326 Taft Pond Rd., Pomfret. For Pre-K to
Grade 8 students. April 8: Bubbles; April 16: Fishing; April 23: Forest
Growth; April 30: Rotting Logs; May 7: Bird Habitats; May 14: Streams.
All at 4:30 p.m. $20 per session, or sign up for all for $100 per
child. Call (860) 974-1122 to register.

### Wednesday, April 9

Eastford Public Library hosts "Maker's Night" from 6 to 7:30 p.m. This
is an adult and teen craft program where we will be making embroidered
felt Easter egg decorations. Come have fun with us!

### Thursday, April 10

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack, and time of free play. 

Sam Rotman, an internationally renowned pianist, will perform at the
First Congregational Church of Pomfret on Thursday, April 10, at 7 p.m.
A love offering will be taken toward the rebuild of the Congregational
Church of Eastford.

### Saturday, April 12

Eastford Public Library will host a family zinnia seed starting workshop
led by Jean Pillo at 10:30 a.m. on Saturday, April 12. She is a member
of the Woodstock Conservation Commission and Quiet Corner Garden Club.
Space is limited, please register.

### Wednesday, April 16

Eastford Public Library hosts a "Matinée Movie" at 2 p.m. for children
on their school break.

From April 16 through April 30, we will be accepting donations for our
71st Annual Windham County 4-H Foundation Auction and Tag Sale at the
lower level back entrance of the lodge, 326 Taft Pond Rd., Pomfret, from
9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays and from 9
a.m. to 7 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Antiques and gently used
household goods, furniture, toys, electronics, tools, books, lunch
decorative items, etc. will be welcomed. We do not accept donations of
clothing, textbooks, magazines or encyclopedias. For further donation
assistance, call the office at (860) 974-3379.

### Thursday, April 17

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m. the Friends of the
Eastford Public Library will have their monthly meeting.  All are
welcome to attend. 

### Friday, April 18

Eastford Baptist Church and the Congregational Church of Eastford will
hold its annual Good Friday Service on Friday, April 18, at 7 p.m., at
Eastford Baptist Church. Join us for a meditation and commemoration of
Jesus' death on the cross that will prepare your heart for the joy of
Easter Sunday!

### Saturday, April 19

Saturday, April 19, from 1-4 p.m., visit the Windham-Tolland 4-H Camp
Open House, 326 Taft Pond Rd., Pomfret. Meet the director and other camp
staff, take a camp tour, registration materials available. Call (860)
974-3379 for questions.

### Sunday, April 20

The Congregational Church of Eastford will hold its Easter Services on
Sunday, April 20, starting at 6 a.m. for a Sunrise Service at the
hilltop at 8 Church Rd. At 10 a.m., CCE will hold its annual Easter
Service at the Eastford Elementary School gym.

Join Eastford Baptist Church for its annual Resurrection Sunday
services! Join us at 6 a.m. at Buell's Orchard for our annual Sunrise
Service, immediately followed by breakfast at EBC's Family Activity
Center. At 10:30 a.m., join us for our Easter service as we celebrate
our risen Savior!

### Tuesday, April 22

Eastford Public Library hosts "Grim Readers Book Club" at 6 p.m. This
will be a double feature as we discuss "Mary: An Awakening of Terror,"
by Nat Cassidy, and "Kill Your Darlings" by Peter Swanson. Both books
are on display and available for check out. Come in and join this
thrilling and fun group that meets every other month on the fourth
Tuesday.

### Thursday, April 24

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack, and time of free play.

### Saturday, April 26

Eastford Public Library and Eastford Elementary PTO present a "Spring
Craft" at 10:30 a.m. Please register for this event.

## May

### Thursday, May 1

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. 

### Saturday, May 3

Eastford Public Library hosts "BBC Book Club" at 1 p.m. This month the
group will be discussing a classic young adult novel, "Hattie Big Sky,"
by Kirby Larson. This book will be on display and available to check out
for any patrons interested.

71st Annual Windham County 4-H Auction and Tag Sale: Friday, May 2. Tag
Sale 9 to 10:30 a.m., $5 Early Bird Buy-In; 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. is
free. Auction preview at 5 p.m., Auction at 6 p.m. Saturday, May 3: Tag
Sale, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. Auction preview at 4:30 p.m. Auction starts
at 5:30 p.m. outside. [Check our website for more
information closer to the auction date about what special items will be
on the block this year](https://4hcampct.org/).

### Thursday, May 8

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Saturday, May 10

Eastford Public Library hosts a "Mother's Day Craft" at 10:30 a.m.
Please register for this event.

Experience Eastford is back on Saturday, May 10, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Vendors, exhibitors, crafters, games, a 5K run, and much more!

### Wednesday, May 14

Eastford Public Library hosts "Maker's Night" from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Come create with us! Please note this program takes place on the second
Wednesday of every month.

### Thursday, May 15

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m. the Friends of the
Eastford Public Library will have their monthly meeting.  All are
welcome to attend. 

### Saturday, May 17

Eastford Public Library hosts an author talk with award-winning
novelist, playwright, director, and musician Nat Cassidy at 1 p.m. His
acclaimed horror novels include "Mary: An Awakening of Terror and
Nestlings." Please register for this event.

### Thursday, May 22

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Monday, May 26

Eastford Memorial Day Celebration, Monday, May 26. Memorial Services and
Military Salutes:

8:30 a.m., General Lyon Cemetery; 9 a.m., Grove Cemetery. Memorial Day
Parade at 9:30 a.m. Parade begins at Eastford Elementary School.
Eastford Color Guard and Veterans lead the parade. The East Woodstock
Cornet Band provides the music. Community members are invited to
participate. Create a float, decorate your bicycle or wagon, march with
your family, your pet, your friends, your church, or your community
organization. The Eastford Independent Fire Co. and fire trucks will be
polished up and ready to shine! Memorial Day Ceremony immediately
follows the parade. A Memorial Day ceremony will be held at the Ivy
Glenn and Veteran's Memorial. The ceremony includes an invocation,
recognition of an Eastford veteran, laying of a memorial wreath by the
scouts, a military salute, and musical presentations by the Eastford
Singers, Woodstock Coronet Band, and Eastford Elementary School
students. In the event of rain, the ceremony will be moved to the
Eastford Elementary School and will begin at 9:30 a.m. All are welcome
to attend!

### Thursday, May 29

Eastford Public Library hosts "Story Time" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Saturday, May 31

Eastford Public Library hosts a "Cookbook Recipe Night" for adults from
6 to 7:30 p.m. Please stop in prior to this date and choose a recipe
from a cookbook we have set aside at the front desk. Then, we can all
get together and share our love of food and great company.
