---
title: A Word from the Congregational Church
author: Mike Moran
---

Hello Eastford!

It is springtime -- that time of the year when the days lengthen, the
sun strengthens, and everything awakens from a winter of slumber. We
have already had some days when spring fever ignites.

It is also the time of year when Christians celebrate Easter. The
holiday marks the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, the event that is
the centerpiece of the Christian faith. We believe that Jesus is the Son
of God, that He came to earth and lived the perfect life none of us ever
could, then laid that life down on a cross to pay our penalty for our
sins a penalty that includes our own death. That was on a Friday.

Then, with a profound display of God's power, Jesus came back to life on
Sunday morning. His promise to us all is that if we put our trust in
Him, His death wipes our sin account clean, and we are given a new life,
one that is eternal and is defined by Jesus' love and life instead of
our troubled past and future failures. Jesus also promises us that one
day we too will rise from death into a new, perfect and immortal body.
His own resurrection is both proof and a picture of that life to come.
This is the hope of the Christian -- and is why we have good reason to
celebrate Easter.

As I write this in mid-March, the ground is bare, last year's grass is
brown and the deciduous trees appear dead and lifeless. But you and I
expect -- and know -- that in this season life will return. I noticed
crocuses in bloom in front of the Town Office on March 11. That dead
grass will turn lush green, and the leaves on the trees will come out.
The new life of spring is certain. And so is new life in Jesus -- for
those who have turned to Him and put the faith, their trust, their very
lives into His hands.

When I stand aside a grave with a family as they say goodbye to a loved
one who has passed, we talk about this reality. Life in the flesh is
short, but life in Jesus is forever. And I ask people -- with the brown
dead grass and bare trees in view, do we expect new life to come with
the spring? The answer is "Of course!" And when I look at the brokenness
of human life, at my own life as I get older, and think about lost loved
ones (I just lost both of my older siblings in recent weeks) I ask the
same question. "Do I expect there will be new life to come?" And the
answer is the same, "With Jesus, of course!"

And here is a remarkable truth about this new life in Jesus. It is free
for the asking.

If your interest in new life in Jesus is piqued, or you would like to
know more, I hope you might check us out any Sunday, or contact me
directly and we can chat, or join us this Easter (or at Eastford
Baptist). The two churches will gather to worship together on Good
Friday, April 18, at 7 p.m., at Eastford Baptist. And then both churches
will have celebration services Easter Sunday, April 20, both at sunrise
(6 a.m.) and later in the morning (CCE at 10, EBC at 10:30 a.m.).

Join us and celebrate the fact that Jesus is risen -- the very best news
ever!
