---
title: Divorce support group begins at CCE
---

EASTFORD --- The Congregational Church of Eastford (CCE) has started a
DivorceCare Support Group. Divorce or separation is one of the most
painful experiences you may face. So many emotions and challenges are
tied up in the process. You don't have to go through it alone.

DivorceCare offers support, answers, and practical tools to help you
manage the many stresses of separation and divorce and lead you on the
road to healing. The topics addressed in DivorceCare are dealing with
emotional healing; deep hurt, anger, grief and depression; loneliness,
fears and anxiety; overcoming relationship struggles; family and friends
after divorce; conflict, forgiveness, and interacting with your ex;
handling practical challenges; single living; financial and legal
issues; and moving forward.

The 13-week support group helps you heal through a video seminar, a
focused support group, and use of a participant guide. There are
important topics brought up each week in the guide that include
exercises and articles for recovery and person growth as well as
parenting tips. You will share this journey with others who have been or
are going through divorce/separation.

DivorceCare began on Sunday, March 16, but you can join anytime! It will
be held for 13 consecutive weeks from 5:30-7 p.m. at the Congregation
Church of Eastford office, located at 4 County Rd., Eastford, CT (next
to the Eastford Post Office). There will not be a meeting on Easter
Sunday, April 20. The church's website is:
[www.cceastford.org](http://www.cceastford.org). If you are interested
in learning more about this group, reach out via e-mail to:
<cceastford@gmail.org>.
