---
title: From the Eastford Baptist Church
author: Timothy Howard Jr.
---

Hello, Eastford! As the days grow longer and the signs of spring emerge,
we find ourselves approaching one of the most meaningful days of the
year --- Easter, also known as Resurrection Sunday. While many enjoy egg
hunts, family meals, and the fresh beauty of spring, the meaning of the
holiday is much deeper.

For Christians, Resurrection Sunday is the most significant celebration
because it marks the day when Jesus Christ defeated sin and conquered
death forever. The Bible tells us that Jesus was betrayed, falsely
accused, and crucified. He was then buried in a tomb that was covered
with a great stone, and for three days, His followers mourned, believing
all was lost. But then, on Sunday morning, the stone was rolled away,
and Jesus had risen from the dead! His resurrection proved that He truly
is the Son of God, the Savior of the world, and that through faith in
Him, we have the hope of eternal life.

Throughout history, Christians have celebrated Easter in many ways, but
at the heart of every tradition is the hope of the resurrection. From
the earliest days of the church, believers have gathered on this special
day to proclaim that Jesus is alive through those wide variety of
traditions.

Here at Eastford Baptist Church, our Easter Sunday begins before the sun
even rises at our annual Sunrise Service. Gathering in the early morning
hours helps us reflect on what happened on that first Easter when the
women came to the tomb at dawn and discovered that Jesus had risen.
That's why we invite you to join us at Buell's Orchard at 6 a.m. for our
Easter Sunrise Service, where we will worship together as the morning
light breaks through the darkness, just as it did on that glorious day
so long ago.

Afterward, we will continue another long-standing Easter tradition, our
Easter Breakfast. We would love for you to join us immediately after the
Sunrise Service at Eastford Baptist Church in our Family Activity Center
for a nice warm meal and time of fellowship.

Later in the morning, we will gather once again for our 10:30 a.m.
Easter Worship Service at Eastford Baptist Church. This service will be
a time of joyful celebration, Scripture reading, and a message centered
on the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Just as Christians have done for
centuries, we will come together to proclaim the truth that has been
spoken throughout generations: "He is risen!" And the response? "He is
risen indeed!"

Easter traditions bring families and communities together, and we would
love for you to make this celebration part of your tradition as well!
Whether you join us for the sunrise service, breakfast, or worship, we
invite you to come and experience the joy, hope, and renewal that can
only be found in the risen Savior and that the Easter holiday
represents.

Wishing you and your family a joyful and blessed Resurrection Sunday!
