---
title: From the Eastford Independent Fire Co.
author: Jeannine Spink
---

In addition to responding for emergency 911 calls and weekly drills, we
are always in a state of learning. Below are mandatory drills and
classes attended. The EIFC responded to 20 emergencies in January.

- CLASS --- Ten participated in a mandatory Food Awareness and Safety
Training provided by the Northeast District Department of Health (NDDH).
Food preparation and what we need to know about food safety which allows
us to better serve our department and personal activities safely.

- CLASS --- Members participated in, and certified, in Adult Mental
Health First Aid USA, sponsored by the National Council for Behavioral
Health. The eight-hour course taught participants the skills for
providing initial help to someone experiencing a metal health or
substance use challenge and follow-up skills for traumatic events.

- DRILL --- Man vs. Machine: Snow Blowers/Lawn Mowers --- A snow shovel
or lawn rake are reliable methods for taking care of snow and/or grass
removal. Often, people turn to snow blowers and power-generated lawn
mowers to get the job done with minimal effort. However, these pieces of
equipment are heavy machines that need to be handled properly to make
removal efforts effective, efficient, and safe. Through the generosity
of member Marvin Neely, owner of Yankee Sales and Service, members
practiced on actual machines on how to disengage a person's limb
entangled in the machine as safely as possible to save the limb. High on
the list of safety tips is to read and understand the operation manual,
and regularly maintain the equipment. Approximately 80,000 serious
injuries each year between lawn mower and snow blower use/misuse are
reported. Safety tips include aiming the blower chute in a safe
direction, avoid carbon monoxide build-up in enclosed spaces, clear
blower after cooling the equipment thoroughly of any debris to reduce
the risk of fire, look for small objects and rocks prior to use, keep
children and pets away from area, and wearing appropriate protective
clothing and eyewear. Photos of the training are pictured with this
article.

- DRILL: Airborne/Bloodborne Pathogens, Harassment/Bullying, HIPAA

- DRILL: Hypothermia -- How to recognize and treat cold water/cold
temperature exposure due to hypothermia.

It is budgetary preparation time for the EIFC. All organizations are
experiencing challenging financial constraints with anticipated budget
cuts. The EIFC is your driving force in dedication and commitment to the
safety of the residents of Eastford. We thank you for your generous
donations. As a 100-percent volunteer organization since 1942, we rely
heavily on the support of the town's residents and especially the Board
of Selectmen in understanding, asking questions, clarifying the
regulations and standards of OSHA and NFPA. Donations can be sent to:
EIFC, P.O. Box 333, Eastford, CT 06242, Memo Line: General Donation or
Renovation Project.

Spring is right around the corner. An annual town-wide cleaning of the
town's road is usually scheduled. You can help us by clearing entrances
and walkways to your home. Please replace or get free green reflective
house numbers and signs that can easily be seen from the road. This is
especially critical if you have multi-house entryways. Each residence
should have its own sign. Signs and numbers can be obtained any
Wednesday night at 7 p.m. Cleaning around the signs and entries will aid
us tremendously in providing quick and efficient response for your
emergency needs.
