---
title: Experience Eastford Festival Returns May 10, 2025
---

EASTFORD --- A long-time Eastford tradition, "Experience Eastford,"
gathers our great community to together to celebrate Eastford's past,
present and future. Originally conceived as "Heritage Day" at the time
of America's bi-centennial celebration, the event has been a staple of
Eastford warm season life for many decades.

This year's outing has officially been set for Saturday, May 10, from 10
a.m. to 2 p.m.

The event is centered at Eastford Elementary School, at 12 Westford Rd.,
and will include exhibits and vendors, displays of local crafts and
agencies like the CT Forest/Park Association and the DEEP Fisheries
Division and representation from various town groups like the Republican
and Democratic town committees and the Conservation Commission. There
will be a book sale to benefit the Eastford Public Library, kids' games
and a bounce house, a pie eating contest, food truck, and live concerts
by local bands. Many other activities are in the works, so watch for
updates as it gets closer.

To kick off the day there will be 5K Run, "The Heart of Eastford," which
will raise funds for a local charity. The 5K run starts at 9 a.m.
(registration at 8:30 a.m.). [For info and pre-registration go to the sign-up webpage](https://runscore.runsignup.com/Race/CT/Eastford/HeartOfEastford5k).

"Experience Eastford is such a great way to bring our community together
--- and the need for community is huge in our culture today," said Laura
Barlow, of Eastford.

The team organizing the event is doing so alongside the town's
Recreation Commission. We need volunteers as we plan, and especially the
day of the event. If you would like to help, contact Mike Moran at (860)
942-6617.
