---
title: What's Going on at the Eastford Public Library?
author: Katie Ball
---

Spring is here and we are excited to embrace all things gardening. The
library will be offering programs related to seed sowing as we prepare
for warmer weather. Did you know we have a seed library? We have a
collection of vegetable, herb, and flower seeds available for our
patrons to choose from. Please, stop in!

A huge thank you to Jeannine Spink, a member of our Library Board and
volunteer firefighter at Eastford Independent Fire Co. She graciously
hosted an instructional CPR/first aid class at the library in February
and will continue to do so if there are people in the community who are
interested. Just let us know!

We would also like to thank our patron Luke McGurl for coming down and
setting up our brand-new 3-D printer. He has offered to host a basic
tutorial for beginners. Please inquire at our front desk if this is
something you are interested in attending.

Ramsey B. (pictured) was our Cutest Pet Photo Contest winner! He is a
spunky Welsh Corgi with a huge personality. Thank you to all our
wonderful contestants for submitting photos of your cutest pet and for
all those who stopped in to cast a vote.

Library hours are Tuesdays, 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.; Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to
5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.; and Saturdays 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
You may reach us at (860) 974-0125, or by e-mail at
eastfordpublib@gmail.com. Upcoming events and programs can be seen on
the town page, on social media, or in the Calendar section of this
edition of the Communicator! If you haven't yet, please follow [Eastford
Public Library on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/Eastford-Public-Library-100071213114254/) and/or [Instagram @eastfordpubliclibrary](https://www.instagram.com/eastfordpubliclibrary/).

![A happy dog in a library](/assets/images/33-5-library-cutest-pet.jpg)
*Courtesy Photo*
