---
title: First Selectman's Update
author: Deb Richards
---

The Bowen's Field Committee is hard at work making plans to have the
Little League field ready to 'play ball' this April. If you are
interested in helping, or being a sponsor please contact us at
selectmen@townofeastford.com. Thank you to this committee for moving
this project forward!

It is budget season, and many towns are facing a budget shortfall due to
unfunded mandates from the state. These mandates include 14 days of
early voting, a change to motor vehicle taxes, tax abatements for
veterans, along with reduced funding for the PILOT program and Education
Cost Sharing. The revenue we receive from the state has decreased by 2.6
percent and the Grand List is reduced by 2.5 percent. There are
across-board increases in energy and fuel costs, public safety, waste
disposal (tipping and hauling), insurance, and workmen's comp. Looking
at these reductions from the state, we are starting the next budget year
with 7 percent less revenue. We are asking everyone to be fiscally
conscious and fiscally conservative with their budget requests.

The DOT is planning on installing Center Line rumble strips on Route 198
from Eastford to Chaplin in the spring.

Great ready for May 26, Eastford's Annual Memorial Day event! The
Memorial Day Parade starts at 9:30 a.m. at Eastford Elementary School.
The Eastford Color Guard and Veterans will lead the parade. The East
Woodstock Cornet Band will provide the music. Community members are
invited to participate in the parade. Create a float, decorate your
bicycle or wagon, march with your family, your pet, your friends, your
church, or your community organization. The Eastford Independent Fire
Company and Fire Trucks will be polished up and ready to shine!

Immediately following the parade, a Memorial Day Ceremony will take
place at Eastford's Veteran's Memorial. The ceremony includes an
invocation, the recognition of an Eastford Veteran, the laying of a
memorial wreath, a Military Salute, and musical presentations by the
Eastford Singers, the East Woodstock Coronet Band, and Eastford
Elementary School Students.

Preceding the parade, Memorial Day services will take place at 8:30 a.m.
at the General Lyon Cemetery and at 9 a.m. at the Grove Cemetery. In the
event of rain, the parade will be cancelled, and the Memorial Day
Ceremony will be held at 9:30 a.m. in the school. All are welcome to
attend.
