---
title: 'A Word [or Two] from the Editor-in-Chief'
author: Art Brodeur
---
I have spent most of my professional life in communications, as a
communicator. My earliest days as a cub reporter saw me writing
obituaries, and covering fire, police, and the courthouse.

One day, I was covering a trial and a rodent disrupted the proceedings.
I still remember my lead sentence: "Hickory, Dickory, Dock, the mouse
ran up the cop." And now, some 70 years later, from the era of hot type
to that of digital printing, I am honored and excited to be engaged in
another endeavor that enables communication with a constituency of
paramount importance. That endeavor is *The Eastford Communicator* and
that constituency is the people of Eastford. I am joined by a cadre of
dedicated people, unpaid volunteers, who produce the paper, maintain the
mailing list, handle ad sales, correspondence, accounting, banking and
tax filing among other things. I am particularly grateful that we have a
managing editor who works more out of love for our community than for
money. We look forward to ever-increasing support and more folks joining
us in producing a vital and central element of life here in Eastford.

The rebirth of *The Eastford Communicator* is, in part, an attempt to
diminish the deterioration of our civic infrastructure, our sense of
community. The word community derives from the Latin for "common
understanding." It implies becoming as one, striving toward mutually
desired ends (my harking back to the Latin is where my children would
put their hands to their ears and leave the room). It is coverage of
meetings, small town activities, local businesses, calendar items, town
government proceedings, vital statistics, and the like which are the
fabric of our democracy, a fabric which should not be allowed to fray.
In this way the public is told what government is doing on its behalf.
It provides a foundation for citizens to be involved in whatever way
they choose. And the stronger the foundation upon which a community is
built the more robust, the more cohesive, the more enduring that
community will be. So let it be with Eastford.

Sadly, nationally and regionally, "hometown" coverage has either died or
is dying. Local news is in peril. What we are attempting to do with *The
Eastford Communicator* is to inform and to enhance our sense of
community, a sense of community which we contend is critical,
particularly to Eastford, "a small town in a mass society," in these
volatile times. We hope that through our efforts we will enable those of
us who call Eastford home to live in the light of knowing --- not in the
dark of not knowing.
