---
name: Bethany
surname: Kawalec
title: "Christmas in Jerusalem"
authordescription: Bethany is a junior Literature major from California.
tags: ["narrative"]
permalink: "/4/2/christmas-jerusalem/"
---

I sat on the faded, dark green couch in our family room, typing on my
laptop. I was tired---as a junior in high school, I was swamped with SAT
preparation and homework---and, with my father's recent cancer
diagnosis, our whole family had been through a stressful few weeks. We
were all busy, and sometimes tempers flared. Today was a good day
though. As is typical in Southern California, the day was sunny, even in
the winter, and light streamed through the windows. I was making good
headway on my schoolwork. Snuggled on her bed beside the couch was
Arwen, my faithful German Shepherd. In the front room across the hall,
my younger sister by two years, Emma, was having her piano lesson. I
could hear the Christmas carols she was playing, mingled with the gentle
voice of her teacher, Whitney. Emma's lesson must have been almost over.
I noticed my mom walk past, and, a few minutes later, she, Whitney, and
Emma all began chatting.

*Ka-ping!* I glance down at my phone. Pleased to see that the text was
from a dear friend, Frank, I decided I'd at least glance at it and
respond in depth later. As soon as I unlocked the screen and read the
message, my heart started pounding.

*I just saw on Facebook that Mike Reed passed away yesterday*, Frank
texted.

I was incredulous, trying to stem the rising sense of dread.

*Are you sure? Where did you hear that?* I texted back.

Frank had to be thinking of someone else---a different Mike Reed with no
connections whatsoever to our church, Calvary Chapel Oceanside. But even
as I waited for Frank's response, tears stung the back of my eyes. A
hundred thoughts raced through my mind. I was afraid he was right.
Pastor Mike's plethora of health issues had gotten even worse, so he'd
been on sabbatical for six months.

Pastor Mike was no stranger to battling life-threatening health
conditions. At age 10, he had nearly died from a rare blood disorder.
The chemotherapy treatment had left him infertile and without tear ducts
and salivary glands, and he'd received hundreds of blood transfusions,
which had given him Hepatitis C. He'd also had a liver
transplant---which required a dangerous, complicated fourteen-hour-long
surgery that put him in excruciating pain during the recovery period.
His immune system was essentially non-existent. When he took
immunosuppressants to prevent his body from rejecting his liver, his
Hepatitis became worse, and treating the Hepatitis caused his liver and
kidneys to malfunction. Yet his faith in the Lord, combined with an
extreme competitive drive, kept Pastor Mike going. His staff nicknamed
him the Energizer Bunny. Nothing seemed to keep him down, and in all the
years we'd attended the church, he'd never been out of commission longer
than a week or two. I really missed Pastor Mike. The board of elders
assured us though that Pastor Mike would be back soon. He was tired,
they said, but optimistic. He was preparing a really special sermon for
Christmas, after which he planned to return to full-time work. Just a
couple of weeks ago, he had rallied and given a sermon from the book of
Joshua.

The buzz of my phone roused me from my swirl of thoughts. Maybe this was
a false alarm.

*It's on the church Facebook page*, Frank said, and he sent me the link.

The tears spilled over. I had to check for myself. Still hoping against
hope, I looked at the church's latest post. Along with the picture of
Pastor Mike, the post contained the caption, "It is with heavy hearts
that we share with you that our senior pastor, Mike Reed, has gone home
to be with Jesus. He finished well!" Something inside me ripped open.

*I'm so sorry, Bethany. Praying for you*, Frank said.

*Thanks*.

I put my head down and wept---deep, gut-wrenching sobs that convulsed my
whole body. Arwen sprung to her feet and ran over to me. She nuzzled my
face and licked and licked, trying to wash the tears away, but they just
kept coming. I started hyperventilating. Arwen jumped up, resting her
chest and front legs in my lap, snuggling in as close as she could get
while still licking my face. Once I got my breath, I kept right on
crying. I tried to be quiet. I didn't want to interrupt the piano
lesson, didn't want Mommy and Emma to know just yet, didn't want to end
their happy morning. A moment later though, Mommy heard me.

"Are you okay, sweetie?"

I couldn't answer. When she came in, all I could do was point at the
computer screen, which showed the Facebook announcement.

"Oh no!" my mom cried, tears filling her eyes, too. She put her arms
around me, hugging me despite the anxious Arwen, still half-on my lap.
Emma and Whitney followed Mommy into the family room.

"What? What's going on?" said Emma.

I let Mommy explain, and then we were all crying---Whitney knew Pastor
Mike, too---and hugging each other. I glanced at the Facebook post
again. The post also had the Bible verse that says how we do not mourn
as those who have no hope, etc., etc. I wasn't comforted. No prayer
sprang to my lips. I could only trust that God would understand the
throbbing in my soul that no words of mine could describe.

Eventually, Whitney had to leave to teach her other piano lessons for
the day. Mommy needed to take Emma to an important doctor appointment. I
found a strength born of desperation to press on with my schoolwork and
with chores---anything to distract from the pain. I wasn't looking
forward to telling Daddy, but Mommy and Emma were still gone when he got
home from work.

"Hi, sweetie," he said as I ran to hug him. His smile faded as he
realized that something was wrong.

"Daddy, I need to tell you something," I said. I followed him into the
master bedroom, where he put his wallet and car keys down. Daddy sat on
the bed beside me.

"Daddy, this morning, Pastor Mike...Pastor Mike passed away," I said.
Until then I'd never understood why people used euphemisms for death.
Now I got it. There was no way I could have looked my father in the
eyes, so anxious to stop his little girl from hurting, and told him
plainly that Pastor Mike was dead.

"Oh, honey," said Daddy, his voice breaking. "I'm so sorry."

Daddy and I hugged each other tightly. Daddy loved Pastor Mike,
too---always saying affectionately, 'Pastor Mike's my main man!'---and I
knew Daddy was just as upset as I was. Then, the next moment, we were
laughing through our tears.

We sat for some time, sharing funny Pastor Mike stories. Perhaps it was
because one of the most striking things about Pastor Mike, after his
love for the Lord, was his sense of humor. Pastor Mike always opened
every sermon with a joke. Daddy and I recalled our first time visiting
the church, when Pastor Mike had plunked a large box of adult diapers on
the pulpit, and said cheerfully, "Do you know why these are called
'Depends'? Because how well they actually work really just depends." I'd
been a bit shocked but quickly warmed up to Pastor Mike's humor.

We reminisced about the time Pastor Mike had taken us to Disneyland,
too. We laughed about how he'd seemed almost more excited than we were,
one moment dashing to get Fast Passes, the next moment rushing to snag a
spot in line. In fact, he was so fast that, one time, he lost us in the
crowd. I was the first to catch up. "Boy, I didn't know you all were
going to be so poky!" he said. We tried to explain how we were admiring
a spot on historic Main Street USA. "History-schmistory," snorted Pastor
Mike. "We have a show to catch!" When we rode the merry-go-round, he
pretended the horses were in a race. "My horse was the fastest!" he
announced after we'd finished. As we came to a dark, scary part of the
Pirates of the Caribbean ride, Pastor Mike shouted, "Dead men tell no
tales!" trying to make me jump. He did a silly dance to the songs that
played over the loudspeakers. He didn't care who was watching. Emma wore
her princess dress all day, and not only did Pastor Mike never poke fun
at her, but he also stood with her in the long, long line to see the
Disney Princesses. He shared his tips on how to get a high score at the
Toy Story Mania ride. He, Daddy, and I engaged in some fierce
competition. Pastor Mike won, of course. By the end of the evening,
Pastor Mike's legs were swollen---a symptom of his liver and kidney
problems. He remained cheerful. Maybe there never will be a perfect day
this side of Heaven, but that day came pretty close.

Daddy and I gave a final laugh at the memory. Then we fell silent.

"He really loved you, honey," said Daddy.

"I know," I said. I thought back to the darkest spiritual season in my
life. I had just been diagnosed with Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. I
was severely depressed and lived in constant terror that my intrusive
thoughts meant I was not a Christian. My mom brought me to Pastor Mike
to ask for prayer. I was scared though. As Mommy explained what was
going on, I stared at the ground. I couldn't stand to see the
disappointment in Pastor Mike's eyes, hear his sorrowful, stern rebuke
as he asked how I could dare call myself a Christian.

"I see," Pastor Mike said slowly. "So, you're having a hard time?" 

I nodded. 

"Well, that's okay." 

I glanced up, shocked, searching his face. He gave me a warm,
compassionate smile.

"Sometimes our bodies and brains do whacky stuff. It's just part of a
fallen world," Pastor Mike said. "But it doesn't mean that you're not a
Christian. You've just gotta keep fighting. Think of it like this: your
faith is like a tree, and God's presence is the water that nourishes it.
Sometimes, God withdraws His presence for a while---or at least, it
feels like it---so your roots will grow deeper to find Him. Then, your
faith gets stronger."

I'd clung to that advice for years, and now, it looked as if I'd have to
do that again. Daddy gave me another hug.

In melodramatic novels, the heroine cries for days and days without
ceasing, but in the real world, grief doesn't work that way. I'm no
heroine, and time tarries for no one. I chipped away at schoolwork and
chores, and, outwardly, I could smile, even crack jokes. Inside, I felt
numb. Spending time with friends, reading a good book, even eating a
good meal---nothing seemed to make me feel anything. I only felt the
searing pain deep within. I realized that, until I at last joined my
beloved pastor in our home country, the steady throb of longing would
always remain in my heart. I couldn't believe he was gone. It all seemed
so surreal. I still checked the Facebook page again and again, hoping
that I'd just imagined everything, that there was some mistake, that
this was just a nightmare and I'd wake up any day now. When we attended
church, I just kept wishing that, somehow, he was still there. Maybe
he'd be sitting in his usual place, about two or three rows back from
the front, one arm around his wife as he leaned forward to chat with one
of the elders. Or maybe he'd be standing near the sound booth, cracking
jokes and making sure the tech team had his slides ready. (It was always
a pet peeve of his when the team missed his cues.) With the entire
church family grieving, the atmosphere at church was somber. All I
wanted was for Pastor Mike to come striding in and say, "Hi guys! Hey,
why so sad? Don't cry; I'm okay!" And then he'd give us a big hug and
say something funny so we'd laugh instead, and everything would be like
it used to be. Then I'd remember that Pastor Mike was dead and give in
to the pain.

I would have given anything to say goodbye to him. I'd always respect
him as a Godly authority figure, but, at the same time, Pastor Mike felt
more like a best friend than just a pastor. Even so, I wouldn't bring
him back, even if I could. I know in my heart of hearts that Pastor Mike
is where he's truly always yearned to be. I don't believe that it's
right to pray for the dead, nor do I believe that deceased loved ones
can answer our pleas to or grant us favors. However, I took comfort in
asking God to speak to Pastor Mike for me. Usually, my prayers ran along
the lines of, "Please tell Pastor Mike we miss him very much," or, "Tell
him we played all his favorite songs in church." I suppose it sounds a
bit corny. But was I really so wrong? It seemed only natural to talk to
the Lord, the only link between us.

I was afraid that Christmas was going to be awful, but God must have
infused me with His supernatural joy. I still couldn't put all of my
feelings into words. The correct platitudes, the stock apologetics
answers about the problem of pain, the Bible verses about grief---all
seemed hollow. The loss was still too recent. I could only cling now to
the Lord, trusting He would understand my heart's deepest cry and
knowing that He would care for Pastor Mike. One moment I'd be crying so
hard I couldn't breathe. At times I wondered, "Did you know you were
dying, Pastor Mike? Did it hurt? Why didn't you tell us? Did I ever tell
you how much you meant to my family? To me?" The next moment, a funny
random memory would pop into my head. Pastor Mike hated raisins. He
thought the original Star Wars trilogy was the best. One time, he'd
said, "If you ever doubt your dog's love for you, just lock your dog and
wife in the trunk of your car, come back five hours later, and see which
one's happier to see you." I laughed to myself. Then I was asking the
Lord, "Why now? He was only fifty-three. Why now? I wanted him to come
to my high school graduation. If I ever got married, I wanted him to do
the ceremony at my wedding. Maybe even meet my kids."

I suddenly imagined Pastor Mike in Heaven. He's not in pain anymore, his
glorified body is healthy and strong---he loved to joke that he'd have a
six-pack---and he even has all his teeth. He told us once that his body
was such a wreck, when he'd bitten into a piece of toast, several of his
teeth had broken. Funny that I should think of that. I envisioned him
roaming the golden streets, high-fiving and hugging and chatting with
all his friends, just like he would before service at church. No doubt
he would talk for hours upon hours (though God's kingdom is timeless)
with great heroes of the faith: Daniel, Caleb, Joshua, Rahab, the
apostle Paul. Finally, I imagined him in the one place he loved and
longed for the most: kneeling at the feet of Jesus. I couldn't help but
smile.

My pain did not dampen my growing excitement for the coming celebration
in heaven. If anything, it increased my gladness. Because the
everlasting God stepped into time, because the King of Kings became a
vulnerable, tiny baby, I had hope. One day, I know, I will see Pastor
Mike again, and we'll have all eternity to spend with our beloved
Savior.

***

Our Christmas service is beautiful. The large stage at the front of the
sanctuary shines with Christmas lights, and the worship team, the
orchestra, and the childrens' choir in their festive formal outfits fill
the stage with a riot of color. We even have a snow machine filling the
place with gauzy white flakes. But the spectacle doesn't detract from
the worship. As the music swells to a joyful crescendo, the focus is on
only One Person. The church was planning this service for weeks, as a
special surprise to welcome Pastor Mike back, and the thought brings
tears to my eyes. Still, I can't help smiling. I'm sure Pastor Mike is
rejoicing in Heaven. Maybe he'll even preach a Christmas sermon, better
even than the one he never got to give for us here. Whatever he's doing,
it's more wonderful than even the best celebration this world can offer.
He's not missing out. He's having Christmas with Jesus.

The ancient Jews, when they said goodbye, would end with, "Next time in
Jerusalem." The blessing was a reminder of the hope that, one day, they
would reunite in the Promised Land. We Christians, on the other hand,
can say, "Next time in the New Jerusalem." We anticipate the Lord's
return, when we will all see one another again. *Next time in the New
Jerusalem, Pastor Mike*, I think to myself. *Until we meet again,
farewell.*
