---
name: Steven
surname: Hake
title: "Charles Dickens and Christmas"
authordescription: Dr. Hake is Professor of Literature at Patrick Henry College.
tags: ["special features"]
permalink: "/4/2/dickens-christmas/"
---
Charles Dickens is famous for many things, and one of them is his
Christmas books. He was a literary genius, but he was also an astute
businessman. He knew the value of having a short, attractively bound,
affordable Christmas book in the bookshops just before Christmas. And
so, for many years he would take his family to Italy to get away from
the constant demands on his life in England and write one.

His most well known is of course the *Christmas Carol,* though he wrote
many others*.* We all have watched the gradual transformation of
Ebenezer Scrooge as he is confronted first by Marley, his former
business associate, and then the ghosts of Christmas past, present, and
future. I remember watching "The Man Who Invented Christmas" several
years ago. This film imagines the artistic genesis of the *Carol*. It is
filled with a number of inaccuracies with respect to the life of
Dickens, but it is true that Dickens' images of Christmas in many of his
books are so vivid that he is strongly associated with the celebration
of that holiday in the minds of many in the English-speaking world.

As Dickens grew older his vision of life grew deeper, but also darker.
One of the novels of his maturity was *Great Expectations*. This begins
with what we might call an anti-Christmas-book. As the story opens on
Christmas Eve, the young Pip is accosted by a terrifying escaped convict
who tilts him almost completely upside down on a tomb stone and extracts
from him a terrible promise to steal both food and a file for him and
bring them the following morning. Pip's imagination runs wild as he runs
home and he is in deep terror. That evening and night are a nightmare as
he plots how to get the "wittles" and file for the convict. A great
while before the day on Christmas morning he steals out of the house and
returns to the graveyard. He finds the convict, or the convict finds
him, devours the food and begins filing the iron on his leg. Pip
continues in misery all that day as his abusive "mother," Mrs. Gargery,
hosts his thoughtless relatives at their annual Christmas dinner. During
the dinner a detachment of Redcoats knocks loudly on the door and Pip
thinks they have come to arrest him. After Joe Gargery, the blacksmith,
repairs their handcuffs they take off after the convict and catch him,
with Pip and Joe running along behind to watch.

A grim Christmas indeed!

But perhaps more like the first Christmas than most of the Christmas
cards we will receive this season. When a young woman is pregnant, the
last thing she wants to do is travel far from home, and certainly not on
a donkey! But Caesar's decree was imperious. When most of us were born
the doctor was on call and the nursery was carefully fitted out with all
the equipment and toys to make the reception and care of the expected
little one pleasant and convenient. Not so with the king of kings. No
room in the inn, no spotless nursery, no team of medical experts. A
young father and younger mother, perhaps both teenagers, struggle
desperately to manage against almost impossible odds.

Pip's almost impossibly difficult Christmas turned out amazingly well
450 pages later. Even this desperate convict died a happy man in Pip's
arms. And look at what has come of Joseph and Mary's almost impossibly
difficult Christmas 2023 years later. If your Christmas this year is not
a happy one, take heart. Give your aching heart, your desperate
circumstances to God. Watch what He does.
