---
name: Kaitlyn
surname: Tully
title: "Letter from the Editor"
authordescription: 
tags: ["letter"]
permalink: "/4/2/from-the-editor/"
---

Dear Reader,

"I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day" is my favorite Christmas carol. It
is based on one of my favorite poems: "Christmas Bells" by Henry
Wadsworth Longfellow. I heard the carol for the first time a few years
ago, and I was immediately in love. It is honest and raw. Yet, it is
hopeful, gloriously hopeful.

I am sure, at some point, we have all felt the despair that Longfellow
describes in the penultimate stanza. Longfellow certainly had. Given
that the poem was written in 1863, it would be easy to assume Longfellow
is simply referencing despair about the American Civil War. That is
unquestionably one aspect of it.

However, by 1863, Longfellow was a 57-year-old widowed father of six
children, all under the age of 20. Two years earlier, his beloved wife
had died of severe burns after her dress caught on fire. Longfellow
tried desperately to extinguish the flames, throwing his own body on top
of her, but it was too late. She died the next day, and he sustained
severe injuries.

At the beginning of 1863, Longfellow's oldest child, Charley, enlisted
as a private in the 1st Massachusetts Artillery. Charley was quickly
commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the 1st Massachusetts Cavalry. At
the end of November, Charley was shot through the left shoulder. He
avoided paralysis by less than an inch, but still faced a long road to
recovery.

It was in this context that Longfellow wrote "Christmas Bells". Still
filled with grief over his wife and fear for his son, he sat down on
Christmas Day and tried to capture the dissonance he felt. The poem is
imbued with the sorrow of one who has seen both his country and his
family torn apart. It does not match the happy view we like to have of
Christmas today. Yet, Longfellow managed to create beauty out of the
sorrow and hopelessness.

In his piece on Dickens and Christmas, Dr. Hake points out that the very
first Christmas was not particularly peaceful. It was comprised of a
scared, outcast mother and a foster father who gave up his reputation
for the mother and the child. We recreate the scene today, calling it
beautiful and peaceful, but was it really like that? Or was it a girl,
still questioning God even as she willingly submitted to Him? Was it a
man, worried his life was completely over, still a bit worried that his
wife lied?

As Mary and Joseph sat waiting for Christ's birth, I wonder if they felt
similar emotions to Longfellow. I wonder if their faith in God's plans
fought desperately to temper the rising doubt. I wonder then if the very
last stanza applied even more to them than it ever did to Longfellow:
"God is not dead, nor doth he sleep." Imagine holding the very Savior of
the world, and, at least for just a few minutes, losing every single
doubt as you look upon His face.

I pray that we can all learn to see the beauty in the chaos and
dissonance this Christmas, and I hope this issue of *Westmarch* allows
you to begin that process.

Sincerely,

Kaitlyn Tully

Editor-in-Chief
