---
name: Faith
surname: Thompson
title: "Longing to Find: The Desire for Eternity in C.S. Lewis's Fiction"
authordescription: Faith is a senior Literature major from Maine.
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/4/2/longing-to-find/"
---

Home. It is a charged word, but every human craves somewhere to call
their own. Those who leave home long to return. People look for home in
objects, in people, in religions, in substances. Hope and home go hand
in hand. The hope of home, unflinchingly, lurks in the human heart.
There is somewhere, a place beyond this earth, where the human heart
belongs. This longing is less abstract to a child in a happy home, who
is safe and cared for. But even that child is aware of something higher,
a place that generates the longing for homecoming---a place only
understandable through glimpses. C.S. Lewis's childhood held a few very
brief flashes of the reminder of home---a euphoric, transporting feeling
he calls Joy in his autobiography. Human emotion is prone to sin, but
there is nothing sinful about Joy. It is a tool God uses to bring Lewis
home down the path which leads to eternal childhood. Understanding Joy
and the real object of his desire leads Lewis to explore longing and the
nature of eternity in his fiction as the truest desire of every human
heart.

Lewis's definition of joy grasps at an emotion that cannot be expressed
in words. Gritting his teeth in his effort, he says that the anguish of
joy brings with it "a depth...of centuries" (*Surprised by Joy* 17). It
is the "intense desire" to "possess Autumn"---which he acknowledges as
impossible (*Surprised by Joy* 18). It is an "almost sickening
intensity" (*Surprised by Joy* 19). It is "a kind \[of grief\] we want"
(19). It is "never in our power" and "anyone who has experienced it will
want it again" (19). There is something overwhelming and painful about
the longing for Joy, and Lewis cannot find words to actually articulate
it. One way to think of it is as a longing so strong and pure that it
hurts, because it should be fulfilled but it cannot be fulfilled. Joy is
a desire that has no earthly fulfillment but is also not sinful. Every
person who has ever lived feels it. The people who refuse to ignore it
are closest to understanding it. It is a pain that is glorious because
it looks forward to the day it will one day be healed.

Having established this foundation for Joy, Lewis describes its effects
on his life. The death of his mother when he was a small child left
Lewis spiritually barren. His emotions washed away, a moment which he
described as "all settled happiness disappear\[ing\] from my life"
(*Surprised by Joy* 23). Indeed, the "old security" was gone, and "the
great continent had sunk like Atlantis" *(Surprised by Joy* 23). The
death of his mother upended Lewis's entire life, and he lost his
childhood happiness. Without simple happiness, he felt no more than
"stabs of Joy" (*Surprised by Joy*, 23) for the duration of his
childhood. His ache for the Good, once his but now lost forever, would
last for the rest of his life.

Lewis did not know where to look for Joy on earth, so he turned to
another world: fiction. In the realm of his own mind, he could be a
king, and events worked according to his whims. But his true desire to
stay in his little fictional world grew out of his longing for home. He
claims that his imaginary world did not have "any connection with joy"
(*Surprised by Joy* 99). But his imaginary world, Boxen, was a place
beyond his own world, a place where happiness might come more safely
than the unfortunately real world. This inspired his love of the Norse
myths, too, which he refers to as "the Northernnes" (*Surprised by Joy*,
99). These were safe places that went outside of what he could see with
his eyes. The Northernness became an idol to him because it satisfied
some small measure of his longing for true home. But as a child, the far
more innocent, but still idolatrous, desire for a fictional reality
filled up his heart. Lewis's longing for home was most easily fulfilled
in his childhood, and the further he got from childhood, the harder he
found it to hold onto his longings without turning to intense darkness.

The rest of Lewis's early life reveals that the death throes of a
childhood are the furthest one can get from joy and a knowledge of
heaven. If the young person does not already possess Joy, that window is
a dangerous and painful time. Lewis's faint flashes of happiness were
replaced by the realization that "consciousness itself was...the supreme
evil," and that all his desires were for "sleep \[to\] last forever"
(*Surprised by Joy* 122). His unhappiness led him from the longing for
Joy itself to filling the emptiness with cheap replacements. Like a man
who wishes for the finest of wines but drinks only the bottom-shelf
grocery store stuff, Lewis sought "'thrills'" in hopes that this would
take away the pain of desire (*Surprised by Joy* 207). Of course, he
knew even at the time that incomplete myth could not provide him with
his truest longings. He "made a state of mind" the goal, and then tried
"to produce it" through the artificial means of seeking out more and
more myth (*Surprised by Joy* 207). But myth could not satisfy him, and
even as an unsaved man, he knew that. Joy is pain with a purpose; no
other religion can fill that void.

Lewis concludes his autobiography with two realizations: that he needs
God, and that myth does not give him the fulfillment for Joy. But his
longing did not simply vanish with his conversion. He does not think Joy
means quite as much once salvation has been attained. Of the journey to
heaven he says, "when we have found the road and are passing signposts
every few miles...they shall encourage us" (*Surprised by Joy*, 291).
Joy itself is the signpost. This is the final evidence that Joy is a
longing for heaven---once Lewis is on the path, he does not need the
constant pangs of sorrow to remind him that this is not home. He is
aware of the destination, and his desperate desire is no longer a
mystery. Instead, it has a direction. The pain of longing did not leave
with his conversion---"the old bitter-sweet," as he calls it, came "as
often and as sharply" as it did in his childhood (*Surprised by Joy*,
291). He longs for his home, but now he can acknowledge Joy as a
signpost, not an end in itself. He does not need the feeling because he
has the truth.

As Lewis found more signposts, they began to creep into his fiction,
whispering the truth that heaven is real. Each of his novels embodies a
different aspect of this, but autobiographical instances of his attempts
to understand heaven slip into everything he writes. His childlike
characters, however, are almost always the closest to the kingdom,
embodying the faith of a child that Jesus commends so strongly.
Christianity recovers childhood by directing desires toward eternal
childhood---heaven. Similarly, the most evil characters of the stories
are the men who pour themselves out trying to escape the longings for
God within their own chests.

*The Magician's Nephew* fictionalizes Lewis's childhood, asking the
question: what if God had done that for which a young Lewis had prayed?
In *The Magician's Nephew*, the main character, Digory, faces the
imminent death of his mother from intense illness. Digory would do
anything to save his mother, but he must learn to trust the great Lion,
who rewards him in the end by healing his mother in a miraculous display
of power (*The Magician's Nephew* 217). Lewis gets at something
important in the book: Digory gets to see Aslan, a stand-in for Christ,
face-to-face, and there is no doubt about Aslan's intentions. The
healing of Digory's mother is meant to "bring joy" and heal his mother
and his heart alike (*The Magician's Nephew* 209). In real life, Lewis
had no such personal encounter. He might not have needed God if his
mother had been healed. Digory had the incentive of understanding.
Without a face-to-face look at God, no human being can understand why
God heals some and lets others die. *Surprised by Joy* makes it clear
that Lewis needed to find God, and that struggle was the means by which
God pulled him in. Digory gets to keep his childhood on earth, but his
renewed understanding of the nature of God allows him to do that in a
way that does not jeopardize his development in the world. Joy does not
have to be Digory's signpost because he has seen with his eyes. The need
becomes different because Digory has already seen the glory for which he
longs.

The fact that sometimes humans require loss in order to find God is
articulated by the life of Orual in *Till We Have Faces*. *Till We Have
Faces* is a distinctly adult novel, one which blends themes of loss with
the hope of someday understanding why awful things happen. Psyche, the
youngest daughter of Glome's king, finds herself on the verge of death
by sacrifice. She sees the Mountain where she will be abandoned, but she
is not afraid. Her response embodies Lewis's idea of Joy and longing:

> The sweetest thing in all my life has been the longing---to reach the
> Mountain, to find the place where all the beauty came from...my
> country, the place where I ought to have been born. Do you think it
> all meant nothing, all the longing? The longing for home? For indeed
> it now feels not like going, but like going back. All my life the god
> of the Mountain has been wooing me (*Till We Have Faces*, 86-87).

Psyche's mindset is utterly incomprehensible to her sister Orual, who
cannot understand a desire that hurts before it heals. Indeed, Orual and
Psyche live in different worlds, dealing with incommensurable visions of
reality. Psyche mourns this with deep recognition of their different
visions: " 'For you, it is not there at all...I am very sorry' " (*Till
We Have Faces*, 136). Orual, however, does not mourn---she grows angry
(*Till We Have Faces,* 137). The source of Orual's complaint through the
entirety of the text stems from this one great struggle: understanding
why something good would be hidden from so many. While Psyche's life is
blissful, Orual's is ruined. Without God, she is nothing. Reflecting on
her inability to heal herself, she says, "Suffering, it seems, is
infinite, and our capacity without limit" (*Till We Have Faces*, 315).
Orual rejects the call to come home when Psyche extends it, and instead
of the pain that eventually brings healing, she embraces the pain of
human suffering without end. Indeed, Psyche is not restored to her.
Orual wants "to call her soul her own," a "mad wish," to borrow the
terminology Lewis uses to refer to himself in his autobiography
(*Surprised by Joy*, 278). For most of the novel, Orual's longing to
call her soul her own is enough to overcome her longing for something
more. *Till We Have Faces* demonstrates that while the human heart is
made to long for God, it is a natural human posture to reject him.
Although the longing for Heaven can never be fully banished from the
human heart,plenty of people are willing to make the attempt. Orual is a
perfect example.

Not all of Lewis's characters wish to reach heaven, of course; there are
some who wish to develop an antithesis to heaven on earth. *That Hideous
Strength*, a dystopia, is man's attempt to bring hell to earth by making
more of man than he can ever be. They ignore their longings entirely.
This is the true problem of *That Hideous Strength*, and, in the end,
the evils that man can conjure in the context of the story are
rejected---but only when the gods themselves (as stand-ins for God)
descend to earth (318). Each human has the propensity for this longing
for heaven. *That Hideous Strength* demonstrates the dangers of
rejecting heaven for darkness. When Frost, one of the scientists who
rejects the Good for darkness, goes to burn down his operation, he
realizes that he can never "cure the illusion of being a soul" (*That
Hideous Strength*, 356). Frost's anger at this reality is intense, and
he throws himself "back into his illusion" and therefore into living
flames rather than face the reality of his own immortal soul (*That
Hideous Strength* 356). Even so, his death is referred to as "entering
eternity," a reminder that God's reality will always triumph over man's
feeble attempts to defeat Him (*That Hideous Strength* 356). Frost's
willingness to reject God and the implications of eternity demonstrates
that the villains of this novel care little for their own souls. The
reality of heaven enrages them. They can ignore the pangs of Joy, but
that will simply result in a different kind of eternal anguish---eternal
death.

Not everyone in *That Hideous Strength* embraces darkness. In fact, the
arrival of the gods---a moment of immense horror to the villains---is
sweet balm to those who love the truth. When the gods come down, the
people most affected are those with the greatest connection to eternity
and Joy. The space traveler Ransom, who has been to the heavenly planet
of Perelandra, experiences anguish upon the arrival of Venus as he feels
a "breeze" blow through the room which leaves him "afloat" and "rocking"
(*That Hideous Strength*, 320). He and the druid Merlin "ache" from the
"inconsolable wound with which man is born," a longing for the place
from which this breeze comes (*That Hideous Strength*, 320). These
characters are broken anew by the arrival of the gods, a moment which
crushes their souls in a way that can be healed. For the villains, the
arrival of the gods brings anguish of a different variety. Once again,
however, Lewis reminds his readers that there is nothing sinful in
longing to meet with God, whom the gods represent. The longing which
Ransom represents is a God-given longing. Rooting it out only destroys
the soul, as Frost so aptly demonstrates with his suicide. Darkness
rejects the gift of Joy, but communion with God amplifies it still
further.

The Space Trilogy also juxtaposes the difference between the finity of
human awareness and the infinity of God's heaven. In *Perelandra*,
Ransom travels to the planet of Venus. Venus is still an unfallen
planet, perfect and beautiful. However, sin follows him to the planet in
the form of Weston, a scientist who becomes possessed. Weston espouses
evil ideals, most of which have to do with time. Weston has rejected the
idea of eternity and wishes to drown the feelings of longing that cling
to his heart. He starts to believe that something dark lurks in the
center of the universe and the heart of man: " '...they think there is a
way of escape. There isn't. That is the real universe, always will
be...That's why it\'s so important to live as long as you can'"
(*Perelandra*, 143). The real universe is malicious, and man's desire to
flee the dark is all there can ever be. He willfully misunderstands
God's nature as being malicious toward mankind: "Doesn't \[the Bible\]
say He's the God of the living, not the dead? That's just it. Perhaps
your God does exist---but it makes no difference whether he does or not"
(*Perelandra*, 143). All he knows is the current life, and his
hopelessness comes from nothing higher than living a long life---not
even a good life. Weston has destroyed his desire for eternity. Man is
an eternal creature---but when that is stripped away, he is weak and
afraid, isolated in the nothingness of daily life.

Ransom, as a science fiction character and man of faith alike, espouses
all of Lewis's ideals about longing and going home. In the conclusion of
the trilogy, he returns to Perelandra without tasting death as a reward
for his labors---a stand-in for heavenly rest and reward (*That Hideous
Strength*, 366). In *Perelandra*, he serves as a Christ figure, and in
the final scene before leaving the planet, he and the residents of
Perelandra discuss the greatness of God. Their praise hinges on the
promise of eternity and their knowledge of a safe home:

> 'Yet this seeming also is the end and final cause for which he spreads
> out time so long and Heaven so deep; lest, if we never met the dark,
> and the road that leads nowhither, and the question to which no answer
> is imaginable, we should have in our minds no likeness of the Abyss of
> the Father...Blessed, blessed, blessed be He!' (*Perelandra*,
> 186-187).

Without the darkness of the world, humanity would not understand its
need for hope.

Those who love the Lord are not like Orual and Weston. Their hope is
like that of Psyche or Ransom---full of the knowledge that God has
promised a home. But the aching of longing, the pain of Joy, the anguish
of hope: these are necessary components to fully understand the object
of Joy. Without these, heaven would not taste so sweet. The pain is not
sinful, and it will be fulfilled, but without it, Lewis whispers, heaven
would feel hollow, and God would feel hidden from human comprehension.

Joy is incredibly painful, and even harder to understand in its
goodness. Most modern men do not want to see good in pain. They want
pain to pass away as quickly as possible and to be saved from
discomfort. Anything that feels inexplicable is foreign to the modern
mind. Understanding the beautiful anguish of Joy, then, is difficult. It
is hard to stress enough how much Lewis did begin to understand Joy. His
conversion allowed him to pour his soul out to express Joy to
others---but, perhaps even more importantly, to point people to their
Home, to the reason for their longing. His literature, even beyond
*Surprised by Joy*, whispers of the joys of eternity, reminding everyone
around him that they are eternal creatures.

That feeling of longing in every human heart is natural. Sin comes from
rejecting it, from embracing hell instead of heaven, and from filling
the gaps with things that can never satisfy. Lewis's final word on the
issue would be a reminder of the import of Joy, but only Joy as far as
it points to something higher than itself. Joy is that about which all
else says, "'It is not I. I am only a reminder. Look! Look! What do I
remind you of?'" (*Surprised by Joy*, 268). Everyone wants a home, and
Lewis wove longing into much of his fiction. He used his writing to
remind others of the truth: each individual human heart was wired to go
home by a loving Father who moved all of reality to bring them there.
"The hardness of God is kinder than the softness of man, and his
compulsion is our liberation" (*Surprised by Joy*, 280). His children's
hearts ache so that they can be healed one day at home. And in the end,
he brings all his children home.

## Works Cited

- Lewis, C.S. *Perelandra : A Novel*. HarperCollins, 2012.
- \-\--. *Surprised by Joy.* HarperCollins, 1955.
- \-\--. *That Hideous Strength : A Modern Fairy-Tale for Grown-Ups*. Harper One, 2012.
- \-\--. *Till We Have Faces : A Myth Retold*. HarperOne, 2017.
- \-\--. *The Magician's Nephew.* HarperCollins, 1994.
