---
name: Grace
surname: Johnson
title: "The Miracle of the D5 Upper Barracks: A Parody of Bret Harte's “The Luck of Roaring Camp”"
authordescription: Grace is a senior Literature major from California.
tags: ["fiction"]
permalink: "/4/2/miracle-d5-barracks/"
---
*The following story was inspired by Bret Harte's "The Luck of Roaring
Camp." The six main boys are fictional, though inspired both by Patrick
Henry students and the characters in Harte's story. I tried to follow
the storyline, and some of the phrases will hopefully remind the reader
of specific phrases in Harte's story. However, I did give my story a
happy ending, since it is meant to be a lighthearted retelling of
Harte's story set in familiar circumstances.*

"Dan should go in."

"Yeah, definitely."

"Come on bro, we're right behind you."

Dan was the best choice to illegally send into the dark shed after
curfew. Yes, Anthony was by far the tallest and the strongest of the six
boys, but Dan was their leader. It was a position he had naturally taken
in the barracks, both because he was the oldest and because he was the
only one Chief Yancy was not actively monitoring.

Dan was not thrilled to enter the dark shed and investigate the strange
noise. "This isn't really allowed, guys..."

"The lock's already broken."

"And something's gotten in there."

"But if Chief Yancey finds out we were in the shed after curfew, after
everything else we've gotten in trouble for..."

"What he doesn't know won't kill him," Mark interrupted, while Eric
urged, "Come on, Dan! Just do it!"

Reluctantly, Dan opened the door. The boys clustered around the entrance
and peeked in.

The noise grew louder and Dan reappeared, bewildered, his arms full of a
wriggling, howling bundle. "Guys, it's a baby!"

Back in their room, the group laid the whimpering baby on a bunkbed and
gathered around him, brows furrowed in a serious discussion.

"Where do you think his mom's at?"

"I dunno."

"How'd he get in the shed?"

"And what do we *do* with him?"

"I guess we should take him to campus security."

"Nah, they're gone for the night."

"We could call the number."

"You want to explain to campus safety over the phone that we found a
baby, in the shed, after curfew?"

They did not.

Thus, they saw no other option but to keep the baby for the night.

The next morning, the conversation continued. Tim and Jim were in the
middle of a particularly loud and emphatic point when Eric burst into
the room, waving a paper.

"Guys! Remember the U.S. History paper I wrote? The one I needed to get
an 82 on so I don't have to write another essay?"

"Ya mean the one ya wrote the morning it was due after reading half the
book?" Dan asked.

"I got an 82.5!"

Mark jumped to his feet. "Impossible!"

Eric slapped the paper down on the desk before him as proof and the
entire room fell quiet. Each guy looked at the others, his mouth gaping
wide, awed into silence.

"How incredibly lucky," Tim murmured.

"This is more than luck," Eric whispered. "It's a miracle. It's---" he
slowly pointed at the baby--- "it's *him*."

After that marvel, all discussion of sending the baby away ended
permanently.

There were a few snags to work through, of course. First, Dan was a
little bit uncomfortable with their plan. "Are you sure it's legal?"

"Sure it is," Mark said. "I did a word search in the student handbook,
and it never mentions 'baby,' so it's gotta be fine."

"What will we call him?" Anthony asked.

"Luck?"

"That's no good! You want the little feller growing up believing in luck
instead of the Lord? We'll call him 'Miracle'."

"That's a weird name to be saying all the time," Jim grumbled.

"We could call him 'Timothy!'" Tim suggested.

"Bro. Seriously? 'Jim' is way cooler."

"Fine. How about 'Jimothy?'"

Then, considering Jimothy Miracle was a poor orphan alone in the cruel
world, Dan suggested giving him gifts. He began the donations with a
candy bar. Tim and Jim each gave a set of weights. Eric gave a video
game control, Mark a video game, and Anthony his finest pocketknife.

"What will we feed him?"

"I'm sure he'll like chicken tenders; all kids do."

"Dude, how's he gonna chew them? He doesn't have teeth!" Dan would know.
His neighbor's dog had once had puppies, so he knew all about raising a
baby. "He has to have milk."

Feeding Jimothy was much easier than they had expected. Between the six
of them, they were able to sneak dozens of cups of milk out of the
dining hall each day---more than Jimothy could ever drink. If the dining
hall workers were surprised by the barrack's sudden enthusiasm for milk,
they didn't say anything.

Then they had to decide where Jimothy would sleep. Mark pulled out his
laundry basket ("I don't use it, anyway"), Jim found an extra pillow,
and Tim donated a blanket. They were able to make "a very comfortable
bed for the little feller," Anthony declared.

Anthony immediately placed the basket beside his desk. This could have
caused strife, for Eric and Mark would have rather had Jimothy near
them. However, when they tried to move the bed, Anthony stood up and
glowered down at the two boys---who were half his height---in terrifying
silence. The two scurried away and did not try to move the baby again.

Later, Tim happened to see Anthony leaning over the basket. Jimothy was
holding Anthony's finger and Anthony was smiling at the baby. When he
noticed Tim, he jerked his hand away and frowned. "Stupid little
feller," he said, and went back to work. Still, Anthony couldn't help
but look back at the baby every few minutes, smile, and whisper, "stupid
little feller," in the most affectionate voice Tim had ever heard from
him.

Slowly but surely, Jimothy brought change to the barracks. It began with
Anthony cleaning up his desk. Then Tim vacuumed the floor around
Jimothy's bed. The other boys began to put away their laundry and make
their beds. Dan opened the windows and aired out the room.

As the boys became aware of how much sleep the baby needed, they all
agreed to quiet down when he was sleeping. This meant everyone spoke in
whispers, put on headphones, and Eric and Mark silenced their video
games. The boys reconsidered their taste in music and agreed to never
play any music besides "Beethoven and stuff" when Jimothy was asleep,
and only "hymns and stuff" when Jimothy was awake. "That way he can grow
up right," Dan said. It was excruciating. Occasionally the barrack's RA
wondered at the looks of pain on Anthony and Dan's faces as they wrote
papers, a Bach concerto droning in the background.

Gradually, Eric and Mark even began to reconsider the video games they
played. "How can we put such images in front of his little eyes?" Mark
asked. They resolved to put away their violent games and only play games
they would not be ashamed of Jimothy himself playing one day.

Perhaps the greatest change, however, was in Tim and Jim. One day, when
they went to the gym for their usual late-night workout with their
fellow Gym Bros, Jim asked Tim, "Do you think Jimothy's gonna be a Gym
Bro like us when he grows up?" Tim looked very uncomfortable at the
idea. Gym Bros were fine for him and Jim, but for Jimothy? "How can we
raise Jimothy up right when we're living like this?" Jim asked.

Tim agreed. So, though they looked pained as they packed up their items,
they left the gym and their Gym Bro ways behind.

***

A few weeks after finding Jimothy, Dan made his roommates sit down for a
serious discussion: "Do ya think we should find a girl to help with
Jimothy?"

Mark sat up in bed so quickly that he whacked his head on the ceiling.
While he writhed in pain, Jim looked at Dan in surprise. "What do we
need a girl for?"

"Aren't we doing a good enough job ourselves?" Eric protested.

"I just think that maybe a girl could give him somethin' we can't."

"I agree with Dan," Anthony said.

"But where are we gonna get a girl from?" Tim asked.

Dan paused and looked very, very sadly at Jimothy. "Maybe we should
consider sending him to a girl's dorm. D3 would take him, I'm sure."

Now Mark jumped out of bed. "Send Jimothy away?! You can't be serious,
dude!! He's like our brother!!"

The others nodded. "They wouldn't know how to take care of Jimothy!"

"Yeah, how would they know he likes the chocolate milk better than the
2% milk?"

"Or Beethoven better than Vivaldi?"

"Jimothy *needs* us, Dan!"

"But don't ya want him to grow up right?" Dan asked.

"Maybe one of us could find a good girl to date and she could help with
Jimothy."

"But none of the good girls will date us!"

"Let's give it some time," Mark suggested. He *really* disliked the idea
of a girl interrupting their lives. "Maybe somethin' will happen to
change your minds."

***

Late in October, Eric received his second U.S. History exam and
immediately knew something was wrong. He stared at the dismal D,
remembered his 82.5 Ryken essay and his B+ on his first exam, and felt
his heart drop into his stomach.

Two months ago, he would have left class then and there; now, however,
he did not want to set such an example for little Jimothy. He sat
through class, miserably watching the clock. The moment Dr. Spinney
said, "If God permits," Eric was out the door.

He tore up the stairs to his room, barely noticing the members of the
administration standing nearby, and flung open the door. There, he
stared in horror at the scene of destruction. The room they had
meticulously cleaned for that morning's grey glove had been torn to
pieces in a mad search. Worse still, Dan lay on his bed, his face
utterly blank, and stared at the ceiling. Tim huddled in the corner.
Anthony sat against his desk, crying---Anthony, *crying!*---with the
empty laundry basket before him.

Without a word, Eric understood that little Jimothy was gone. The room
had been washed in a flood of the administration's fury, drowning his
roommates and sweeping Jimothy away.

***

The boys never knew how they escaped being expelled or prosecuted. Both
events had been a distinct possibility, "but Jimothy gave us one last
miracle," Mark declared.

"I wish he could have given me one more," Eric muttered, staring at his
U.S. History grade.

"I wish we knew where he was now," Jim sniffed.

An entire year passed without any word of Jimothy. Just as the boys were
starting to be able to walk by Vice President Schmidt without wishing
the ground would swallow them whole, the group was called to the
administration's office.

They went, trembling, and filed in before President Haye. "This is it,"
Anthony said gloomily.

"It was nice knowing you all," Tim said.

However, rather than expelling them and erasing their name from the
college's memory, as they had expected, President Haye informed them
that the boys had been invited to the baby's adoption ceremony.

Thus, two weeks later, the boys trooped into court, dressed in their
finest suits, and saw Jimothy again. He was much bigger now, and Eric
cried to see how much he had changed. The others laughed at him. When
the judge declared the adoption finalized, however, all the boys found
themselves crying, and Jimothy's new mom laughed as she handed out
tissues.

Of course, his name wasn't Jimothy anymore. Though his parents were kind
to the boys and found their story quite amusing, they were nevertheless
appalled at their abysmal naming skills.

"Still," Eric said as he pinned a photo of him and the baby beside his
U.S. History essay, "He'll always be Jimothy to me."
