---
name: Lauren
surname: Crane
title: Beauvoir’s “Eternal Feminine” in <i>Till We Have Faces</i>
authordescription: Lauren is a senior Literature major from Washington.
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/3/3/beauvoir-till-we-have-faces/"
---
In her seminal work of feminist theory, *The Second Sex*, Simone de
Beauvoir identifies a mythical "Eternal Feminine" which plays a
significant role in literature. In "everyday life," however, Beauvoir
finds this myth to be false and even restrictive to women. Instead of
accepting an essentialist understanding of womanhood as singular and
fixed in the realm of the Platonic forms, the existentialist Beauvoir
believes that womanhood is taken on by actions conforming to the
mythical Woman. Therefore she famously says, "One is not born, but
becomes, a Woman" (1212). Because the feminine myth understands woman as
"other" to men, Beauvoir believes that it denies women's subjectivity.
"To posit the woman," she says, "is to posit the absolute Other, without
reciprocity, refusing... that she could be a subject..." In
existentialist terms, the Eternal Feminine relegates women to immanence
(earth-bound), while men are able to achieve transcendence.

The literary Eternal Feminine is seen in C. S. Lewis's novel *Till We
Have Faces*. In this novel, the narrator, Orual, undergoes a
transformation from the goddess Ungit to the goddess Psyche. Both of
these goddesses represent an aspect of the Eternal Woman. However,
contrary to Beauvoir's thesis, Orual achieves transcendence not by
breaking free from conformity to Psyche, but by submitting to her
transformation into the goddess. Lewis intentionally utilizes mythic
femininity not, as Beauvoir would claim, to define women as other than
men, but to define all of humanity as other than God. To Lewis, then,
the Eternal Feminine becomes a spiritual reality through which all
mankind gains transcendence.

The goddesses Ungit and Psyche represent inverse sides of the mythical
woman. According to Beauvoir, the feminine myth generally appears in
opposite pairs of a good woman 
and a bad woman---the madonna and the whore, the goddess mother and the
demon (1215). Ungit corresponds to the bad woman. She acts throughout
the novel as a force of destruction, so that Orual, reflecting on
Ungit's temple, says:

And I thought how the seed of men that might have gone to make hardy
boys and fruitful girls was drained into that house, and nothing given
back; and how the silver that men had earned hard and needed was also
drained in there, and nothing given back; and how the girls themselves
were devoured and were given nothing back (*Faces* 307).

Ungit is characterized by her consuming nature. Conversely, Psyche is
characterized by her beauty and fertility, corresponding to Beavoir's
good woman or "Goddess Mother" (1215). When a deadly pestilence strikes
the people of Glome, Psyche walks among them, healing them with her
touch (*Faces* 37-38). This action prefigures her restorative role at
the novel's end, when she retrieves the casket of beauty from the Queen
of Shadows in order to make Ungit beautiful (*Faces* 347). Where Ungit
makes barren, Psyche brings life; the two form opposite ideas of the
Eternal Feminine.

Psyche is primarily defined in the novel, however, by her role as wife
to the god of the mountain. The story's action begins when Psyche is
sacrificed to Ungit's son, the Shadowbrute. She is brought to the top of
the grey mountain and left, bound, for the brute to destroy. Yet when
Orual returns to the mountain days later expecting to bury Psyche's
remains, she finds her sister alive and claiming to be the wife of the
god. "I'm not my own," she tells Orual. "You forget, sister, that I'm a
wife" (146). According to Beauvoir, it is Psyche's role as a wife that
denies her subjectivity. She says, "...\[I\]n amorous or conjugal
relations and in all relations where woman is the vassal, the Other, she
is grasped in her immanence" (1217). The wife, constrained by her
husband, is not able to gain transcendence through her actions in the
world. Therefore Beauvoir
says that because such women "*do* nothing, they do not make themselves
*be* anything" (1218). This is affirmed of Psyche when Orual says,
"Psyche herself was, in a manner, no one" (*Faces* 350). Psyche's
existence has been absorbed into that of her god husband, and she is
defined only in relation to him.

The transformation of the protagonist, Orual, is in Beauvoir's terms
merely a transformation from one aspect of the Eternal Feminine to the
other. She breaks free from a conformity to Ungit only to surrender to
conformity to Psyche. In the beginning of the novel, Orual is defined by
her father, who views her as the bad woman of Beauvoir's myth. Orual
gains understanding of her ugliness from her father, who alludes to her
deformity in his command that all the young women in his wedding be
veiled. Orual responds, "I think that was the first time I clearly
understood that I am ugly" (*Faces* 13). Her father consistently demeans
her as an ugly woman throughout, and his verbal abuse reaches its height
when Orual protests Psyche's sacrifice. When she begs him to spare her
sister, he rebukes her, "You trull, you quean, you mandrake root!"
(*Faces* 64). His names for her connote a woman whose sexuality brings
destruction, and they closely resemble Beauvoir's mythical bad woman,
whom she calls "Praying Mantis," "Mandrake," and "Demon" (1215). When
Orual continues to offer herself to die in Psyche's place, the King
brings her before a great mirror and says, "Ungit asked for the best in
the land as her son's bride,... \[a\]nd you'd give her *that*" (*Faces*
70). The mirror here symbolizes truth and self-discovery. Orual is as
her father sees her, the mythical ugly woman. When the king becomes too
ill to rule, however, Orual begins to take on the mantle of his
leadership, allowing her to gain agency. As her power increases, her
relationship with men changes from one of submission to one of power.
This is demonstrated by her first interaction
with a man in her role as queen, her rescue of Trunia. Trunia is a
wanted prince who comes to her kingdom as a suppliant begging her
protection. He flirts with her in the manner of a courtly lover
petitioning a powerful lady, and she protects him in the masculine field
of combat, by fencing with his enemy for his freedom. Although Beauvoir
says that women are typically "vassals" in romantic relationships, she
acknowledges that women sometimes have power over their male partners.
She says, "In the very rare cases where it is she who holds the economic
and social privileges, the mystery is reversed" (1218). By gaining a
role of authority over men, Orual breaks away from the Eternal Feminine
and begins to gain transcendence. From this moment, Orual begins to
forge an identity as Queen wholly separate from her previous self. Her
relationships with the men in her life continue to demonstrate her
power, for she no longer submits to them. Rather, she is able to engage
in mutual relationships with both the Fox and Bardia, who become her
counselors. Beauvoir observes "that the woman friend, colleague, or
associate is without mystery" (1217). Women who are in reciprocal
relationships with men are not viewed according to a myth of femininity
but considered equal. Orual even begins to gain equality with her father
before his death, when she is allowed to act as one of his advisors.
After her work with the King's affairs, Orual says, "He came, for the
time, to hate me less. In the end he would speak to me, not, certainly,
with love, but friendly as one man might to another" (*Faces* 34). Her
Father does not view her as the mythical bad woman while she acts as his
equal in a man's job. As Queen, she gains reciprocity in friendship with
Bardia, her captain of the military, who remains by her side as she
fights and rules her kingdom. Comparing her relationship with Bardia to
his relationship with his wife, Ansit, Orual says,

> But has she ever crouched beside him in the ambush? Ever ridden knee to
> knee with him in the charge? Or shared a stinking water-bottle with him
> at the thirsty day's end? For all the dove's eyes they've made at one
> another, was there ever such a glance between them as well-proved
> comrades exchange in farewell when they ride different ways and both
> into desperate danger?... She's his toy, his recreation, his leisure,
> his solace. I'm in his man's life (Lewis 265).

Orual claims her relationship with Bardia to be superior to that of his
wife. She boasts that because he respects her as an equal, she partakes
in the transcendence of his man's life. Orual as Queen gains reciprocity
and equality in her relationships with men, breaking free from the
feminine myth that denied her subjectivity.

Yet the novel does not end with Orual's increase in power. Rather, she
transforms into Psyche, the mythical good woman. This transformation is
sparked by the return of her father, who appears to her in a vision
towards the end of her life. At the sight of her father, Orual yields
her power to him and obeys his commands to descend deep into the earth.
At the end of their descent, the King brings Orual once again before the
great mirror in order to reveal her true self. "Who is Ungit?" he asks
(*Faces* 314). Orual, horrified, realizes,
> It was I who was Ungit. That ruinous face was mine. I was that
> Batta-thing, that all- devouring womb-like, yet barren, thing. Glome was
> a web---I the swollen spider, squat at its center, gorged with men's
> lives (*Faces* 315).
Despite her rise to power as the Queen, Orual's identity as Ungit is
deeper, more fundamental, and impossible to escape.

Here, the contradiction between Lewis's novel and Beauvoir's thesis
becomes evident. Orual is not satisfied by her reciprocal relationship
with men; rather, her rise in power accompanies a spiritual decline.
Although her relationship with her father gains reciprocity, it lacks
love (*Faces* 34). And although she comforts herself by sharing in
Bardia's man's life, she
desires to be loved by him as a woman (*Faces* 302). Despite Beauvoir's
claim that women are only able to be truly known through reciprocal
relationships with men, Orual's life as the Queen is lonely. Beauvoir
says, "To say that woman is mystery is to say not that she is silent but
that her language is not heard; she is there, but hidden beneath veils"
(1217). Ironically, Orual begins to veil her face and obscure her true
self when she becomes the Queen. Once her true nature as Ungit is
revealed to her by her father, however, she is brought before the gods,
stripped of her veil, and given the opportunity to make confession. Here
it becomes certain to Orual that "this, at last, was my real voice"
(*Faces* 334). In contrast to existentialist philosophy, Orual's true
self is not measured by the sum of her actions, but by her spiritual
state.

When Orual is revealed to be, like Ungit, the bad woman, she attempts to
make herself good by practicing philosophy. However, she finds that
there is nothing she can do to become anything. Rather, this change can
only be effected through her submission to Psyche, which effects her
transformation. When she is reunited with her sister, Orual says to her,
"\[A\]ll there is of me shall be yours" (*Faces* 348). When she sees her
reflection, she is told "You also are Psyche" (Lewis 351). Of this
transformation, Orual says, "I was being unmade. I was no one" (Lewis
350). As Orual is once again absorbed into the Eternal Feminine, she
both becomes her true self and loses her transcendence.

The mythical eternal feminine is found in *Till We Have Faces* because,
unlike Beauvoir, who believes this myth is false, Lewis believes the
myth represents a spiritual reality. He expresses his belief in an
eternal feminine and masculine nature in his discourse on sex in *The
Four Loves*. He says:
> But in the act of love we are not merely ourselves. We are also
> representatives. It is here no impoverishment but an enrichment to be
> aware that forces older and less personal than we work through us. In us
> all the masculinity and femininity of the world, all that is assailant
> and responsive, are momentarily focused. The man does play the
> Sky-Father and the woman the Earth-Mother; he does play Form, and she
> Matter... \[E\]ach plays a part or role in---well, in something which is
> comparable to a mystery-play or ritual (at one extreme) and to a masque
> or even a charade (at the other) (*Loves* 132).

In the act of sex, men and women participate in an "eternal" masculine
and feminine that supersedes themselves. In this "ritual," Lewis says,
"they become a god and goddess between whom there is no equality---whose
relations are asymmetrical" (*Loves* 133). The Eternal Feminine does
indeed subordinate women to men and therefore relegate them, as Beauvoir
argues, to the second sex. But Lewis believes that this subordination
need not contradict the ontological equality between men and women.
"Outside this ritual or drama," he says, "he and she are two immortal
souls, two free-born adults, two citizens" (*Loves* 133). Furthermore,
this "pagan ritual" only whispers of a far greater mystery, of "One far
greater than Zeus and far more masculine than the male" (*Loves* 134).
The eternal masculine and feminine are ultimately representative of the
relationship between Christ and the Church. This places both men and
women in the position of the Eternal Feminine, and does not subordinate
women to men, but subordinates humanity to Christ. This is why Psyche
tells Orual that her embarrassment at being undressed before the gods is
not due to a difference in sex. She says, "This shame has nothing to do
with He or She. It's the being mortal" (*Faces* 131). Lewis utilizes the
Eternal Feminine to demonstrate the relationship between humanity and
divinity.

Beauvoir is correct, then, in her belief that there can be no
reciprocity in correspondence to the Eternal Feminine, for as Lewis
writes in *Mere Christianity*, man must give up his
personality in order to be absorbed into Christ (226). And yet,
paradoxically, it is by giving up his sense of self that he finds his
true self. Lewis says:
> Give up yourself, and you will find your real self. Lose your life and
> you will save it. Submit to death, death of your ambitions and favorite
> wishes every day and death of your whole body in the end: submit with
> every fibre of your being, and you will find eternal life (*Mere
> Christianity* 227).

For this reason, Psyche's being is both affirmed and negated in relation
to the god, for although Orual says that Psyche is "no one," she
continues to say, "Or if she counted (and oh, gloriously she did) it was
for another's sake" (*Faces* 350). Psyche paradoxically gains greater
existence as
she submits to the god. Furthermore, Orual retains her individuality
even as she conforms to the Eternal Feminine. Gazing at her transformed
reflection, Orual says, "Yes, both Psyches, both beautiful (if that
mattered now) beyond all imagining, yet not exactly the same" (*Faces*
350). Lewis appropriates what Beauvoir calls the mythical Eternal
Feminine not to establish women as the second sex but to demonstrate
femininity as the ideal for all humanity, the state in which man finds
his highest being.

## Works Cited

Beauvoir, Simone de. "The Second Sex." *Norton Anthology of Theory and
Criticism*, edited by Vincent B. Leitch, W. W. Norton and Company, 2018,
pp. 1214-1222.

Lewis, C. S. *The Four Loves.* Harper Collins, 1960.

---. *Mere Christianity.* William Collins, 2016.

---. *Till We Have Faces*. Harper Collins, 2012.
