---
name: Clara
surname: York
title: Denying Princess
authordescription: Clara is a junior Journalism major from California.
tags: ["narrative nonfiction"]
permalink: "/3/3/denying-princess/"
---
Elijah Harrod leans across the Arby's table, eyes wide under his black
ball cap.

"Do you know why I wanted to come to this Arby's?" he asks. "Because
there's a transgender who works here. I've been witnessing to him." He
stands in line to get his food, playing innocent so the employees won't
know the real reason he's scrutinizing the menu is to create a moment to
slip two gospel tracts to the order taker. Harrod asks her to give one
to the large womanly form behind her. "He recognizes me," Harrod
whispers.

Harrod is easy to recognize. He wears a black t-shirt that says "Repent
Sinner" across the front with a white outline of a hand formed into a
pointed index finger right at you. On the back, "Obey Jesus or Hellfire"
is printed in yellow and white block letters. He rubs the tattooed word
"sexy" on his right forearm, not immediately visible on his dark skin.
He wants to get it removed.

Nearly everyone in the Arby's has already encountered Harrod, and
already taken a little piece of shiny paper from him with flames printed
on it. "Jesus loves you," he says to the black man who just walked in.
Harrod gives him a tract, too. "He hangs around the counter, waiting for
his food.

He gives a tract specifically for Muslims to the balding man who just
walked up behind the register. "Can I give you a gospel tract? God bless
you." The man takes the tract without looking at it. Elijah turns
around, eyes and smile wide. "Thank God!" He whispered, "He took it!"
Muslims often did not take tracts.

A homeless man walks in wearing a "Homeless, Need Help" sign written in
all caps with marker on a piece of cardboard. Harrod gives him a tract.
"I love souls," Harrod says as he leaves to get the homeless man a snack
from 7/11. "I love souls."

"You'd better turn or burn, turn or burn, you'd better turn to Jesus or
you're gonna burn in heeeeeelllll..." Harrod shouted into the
microphone, the words flowing in a sing-song rhythm that sticks in your
mind, which was part of the horror of it. He drew out the last word hell
almost like a long, seductive, "heeyyyyy," only deeper and more gravely.
A man in short denim shorts and a wifebeater danced up to him, shaking
his stuff at Harrod and mocking repentance with prayer hands. Harrod
condemned him for liking Lady Gaga, who "will lead you to hell." "You
are a man and stop acting like a woman!" Harrod shouted. "You are an
abomination in God's eyes." The loudspeaker is a poor translator of
tone.

Three years earlier, a woman danced for an outreach by the Human Rights
Campaign to "Hit Me Baby One More Time" by Britney Spears. Hips
thrusting, long hair flipping, and little black skirt flouncing, she was
a picture of confidence and personality. The small crowd cheered and
whistled and videoed. The woman was Harrod, but under his new name:
Princess Breezy. The road to Princess was a road of yesses to forbidden
fruit.

First, there was the makeup. Teenage boys were not supposed to want to
wear makeup. Maybe little kids, like Harrod's ma would tell stories
about how he liked to take a marker and color his eyelids with it before
going to school. His second great-aunt also noted how much he liked to
play with dolls when he was a child. Harrod certainly remembered playing
Power Rangers, but that was the concern of children, not boys who were
14 or 15, like Harrod.

Rodney Mackall, Harrod's father, found out his girlfriend's makeup was
missing. "Where's it at?" he asked Harrod.

"I don't know," Harrod said innocently. Nobody suspected a thing, and he
wasn't troubling himself about *supposed tos*. His father's girlfriend's
makeup had been too hard to resist.

Then, there was the cheer team. Harrod helped pick up and toss the girls
on the cheer team. He would dance, too, and say the cheers. His father
saw him dance one time to Britney Spears, not in school, and said, "you
dancing like a female." The guys at school said he was gay. Harrod
brushed it off and hung out with his female friends. That didn't stop
him from sleeping around with the boys at school.

His crush from middle school had been the first to solicit him, arriving
at his house one evening and asking his sister where Harrod was. They
went out for a walk, agreeing their liaison would be on the downlow. It
was the first time Harrod was able to feed his addiction for sex,
specifically for sex with other men.

It was strange. When the abuse happened at 13, he'd been horrified and
nervous and broken. He didn't tell a soul. But it made him crave touch
like that, touch from other boys. So, the boys called him gay and some
of them knew it by experience.

He was stuck with the men's cheer outfit until the pep rally flag
football game. He found out one of the girls would be playing football
and one of the boys would have to wear the woman's cheer outfit -- a
dress. Harrod saw his chance and took it. "I want to do it, I want to do
it!" When he had it on, he felt *yay*. The skirt was comfortable.

Harrod wore girly hats, tight clothes, and feminine blouses for the next
10 years while he worked at McDonald's, Burger King, and a long-term
relationship with a gay man. Still, it took Harrod 10 years to procure
and proclaim his own sparkle -- to come out as Princess.

When he did, his ma told him she was surrendering him to God. She was
hopeful he would see the light. His father was just out of jail, and was
only concerned about Harrod contracting an STD. His friends tried to
help him understand what his next steps should be.

Step one: the Whitman-Walker Health clinic in Northwest DC. The doctor
gave him hormone pills that made his facial hair go away and changed his
voice. They would have to check his chest to make sure no cancer
developed from hormonal irregularity.

Step two: surgical transition. Trinik, a girlfriend in the platonic
sense, had an appointment in Baltimore for a sex change. Harrod went
along. It was the next step, wasn't it? His friends showed him some
pictures on a google search of how he could look. *Nasty*. Nasty looking
and the thought of the surgery didn't settle right with his nerves.
Harrod decided to stick with hormones. Instead of surgical transition,
he went for a new step 2: spiritual transition.

Harrod sat in a sunlit blue tub, wearing a leopard print shower cap and
sporting bright yellow nails. A woman in white vestments stood in the
tub with him, while a man in black with a white stole decorated in a
rainbow pattern stood by.

"Elijah Harrod Princess," the woman in white said, I baptize you in the
name of the Creator, the Christ, and the Holy Spirit." Spoken
halleluiahs erupted as Harrod burst out of the water, hands stretched up
to the sky. The spoken halleluiahs morphed into song. One word was
written on the white stole: Joy. He was going to heaven now that he was
baptized. His ma had always told him God loved him. Harrod had always
believed it and he had always reciprocated. "I love God! I love Jesus!"
would say. Now, he had a way to worship in his new identity.
Metropolitan Community Church of Washington DC had only been a google
search away: "LGBTQ friendly churches."

The next church he entered, The Rock Christian, was an invitation away.
Shawn, Harrod's social worker, invited him to bible study. He went a few
times, curious. Then he volunteered to participate in their Christmas
play.

"Oh Lord." Harrod crawled along the sanctuary floor, his throat catching
in wheezy sobs. A lady in a headband pointed her finger dramatically for
Harrod to leave after he made it on stage. "Oh!" Harrod threw his hands
up in shock. "Oh!" He was getting into it now. Black cloaked beings
prodded him back across the floor with a pitchfork. This was no ordinary
Christmas pageant. Harrod came around the other side of the stage to a
fake door. A woman hastened to open it.

"Come in, what's the matter?"

"I'm a transgender," Harrod whined in a sing-song. "I've only got a week
to live. Can you help me?" His character suffered from AIDS. He threw
his hand near his head as though about to faint and kicked his high heel
daintily as the lady pulled him inside. The audience roared with
laughter. The nice church people characters on stage "cleaned him up" by
putting him in a men's suit.

This new costume was the only part of the evening that he didn't enjoy
-- not yay. Still, it was a good time. He didn't think most of the
people who watched the play knew he was actually transgender. Those who
did know were still nice to him.

The first time he'd visited The Rock, he sat in the car so long that
Apostle Coletta Jones noticed. She could tell he was afraid of how he
might be treated if he came inside, but he had nothing to worry about.
Jones had prepped her congregation for people like Elijah Harrod.

They weren't supposed to try to change anybody -- that was God's job.
They were there to love. To welcome. They did that with Harrod. When
they got to their "share the love" part of the service, they rose and
hugged Harrod without any display of discomfort. Harrod was intrigued by
the men and women at The Rock. They were in marriages, many of them, and
had children.

The strangest thing, though, was the preaching. Salvation. Repentance.
Take up your cross and follow Christ. He'd never heard any of this stuff
at MCCDC. There, nobody opened a Bible. Every week they'd give a paper
handout with any sort of information on it, from church activities to
HIV awareness.

After Harrod had been attending both churches for a few months, Pride
month hit and MCCDC celebrated enthusiastically. They draped rainbows
everywhere, in addition to the large rainbow flag to the right of the
sanctuary. They were celebrating themselves. They were celebrating love.
No, even more than that. They were celebrating divinity. Jesus was
homosexual, the pastor said in his sermon. Harrod made quizzical eye
contact with his partner, Perez. *That's not true,* he thought. He
decided not to go back. Perez was fine with that, but Harrod never saw
Perez again.

Harrod joined the new member's class at The Rock. He professed Christ
and got baptized, again. He was still wearing the fancy nails, carrying
the woman's pocketbook. "I guess I'll take these off now," he told
Jones. She told him not to, at least not to please her. "Don't try to
change yourself on the outside," she told him. "God will change your
heart."

"We want Princess! We want Princess!"

Harrod stood before a crowd of chanting college students at Atlanta
Pride in Oct. 2022. He shielded his face, shaking his head and laughing
softly. Why, why did they have to do him like this after he shared his
testimony?

"I'm an ex-former-trans-gender-woman," he would shout into the
microphone. The pride parades would cheer at that part. "Oh, you look
beautiful. You're beautiful, come back to us," people would say. "You're
so beautiful as a woman."

Why would they say things like that to a new man? A man who went to a
woman's barber to give up his long locks for Jesus because he knew a
female barber wouldn't tempt his eyes to sin.

"We want Princess!"

So did he, so did he. He'd wanted Princess and his God so badly after he
got re-baptized that he tried to love both. But the people at The Rock
talked about hell. He'd never heard anybody talk about hell before. He
hadn't known it was a real place, a real place he could burn. A place
he'd earned, fair and square. And then there was Covid-19, with the
death toll screaming from the television every day, and every day worse.
He fell to knees in April 2020.

"Lord, I can't do it no more," he had prayed. "I can't do it."

It was not the type of prayer to pray once. Facebook lured him, where
his mind would drift to pictures of cute guys.

"We want Princess!"

The scriptures on his wall get him through. Romans 12:2 is on his wall,
and 1 Corinthians 6:18-20, and Luke 9:23: Jesus's words.

"Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves..."

"We want Princess!"

"... and take up their cross daily and follow me."
