---
name: Catie Anne
surname: Banks
title: Marne of the Elves
authordescription: Catie Anne is a sophomore History major from North Carolina.
tags: ["fiction"]
permalink: "/3/3/marne-of-the-elves/"
---
It all began under an oak. It was one of the great, old oaks that exist
only in the memory of legend. It grew on the edge of the dark forests
that used to fill the Britain of elves and fairies, giants and black
dogs, and fear and worship of nature. Nestled under roots of the oak
that misty morning was a tiny baby, wrapped in a plaid shawl. Its cries
shattered the forest, whetting the appetites of beasts and silencing
birdsong. Its cries reached the ears of something as old as the forest
itself. Leaves rustled and twigs snapped under the footsteps of
something as powerful as the superstitions of an isolated village. Its
long, pale fingers reached for the baby, and gathered it to its breast.
Cradling the infant in its thin, knobby arms, it disappeared into the
forest, softly singing an eerie lullaby.

The elves of Celtic Britain were a solitary race. Isolated from humans,
they lived in dark forests in small communities. Oddly enough, they were
incapable of that most miraculous of powers: reproduction. Their own
beginning was unknown to them. They were immortal, ancient, and lonely.
To ease the burden of their communal childlessness, they sometimes stole
human infants. They delighted in the children's laughter, curiosity, and
mischief. They raised them into strong hunters and huntresses, capable
of some magic. Even fully grown, the changeling humans delighted the
elves. But eventually the men and women would begin to age, and finally
die. And again the elves would be alone.

When the elf Maeve arrived with the baby sleeping quietly in her arms,
her clan rejoiced. They had not had a changeling for over a century. But
before the sun had set their joy was silenced. The baby had been
abandoned because it was born with a deformity that was killing it as
they watched. The elves lay under the trees, grieving quietly, as was
their way. Maeve held the baby in her lap, and tears slipped off her
face and onto the plaid shawl that was still wrapping him. As the moon
began to rise, the stream running through the forest swelled. Near the
bank, it surged and bubbled, and then suddenly the figure of a woman
broke through the surface. A bronze brooch held her clothes at her
shoulder. Moonlight glinted on the tiny panels filled with intricate,
twisting patterns that decorated the brooch. The elves bowed before her,
crying, "Welcome, goddess Modron!"

"Show me the child," Modron said in a deep voice, both melodic and
powerful. Maeve brought the infant to her, and knelt, holding the baby
up to the goddess. Modron took the child in her arms. "The waters told
me of your sorrow. I am a mother, Maeve, and the tears of a mother make
the bitterest streams." She kissed the baby. "Give me your brooch."

Maeve hurriedly removed her brooch and offered it to Modron. Modron
handed the infant back to Maeve, and unpinned her own brooch, replacing
it with Maeve's. The brooch glimmered with more than just moonlight as
she attached it to the plaid shawl swaddling the baby. "Keep it close to
his skin for a year. After that, he need not wear it. This brooch holds
much power. It will heal him and make him ageless, just as you are. But
do not let it break. If it does, my power will leave it and he will
become a mortal again." Modron turned and stepped back into the stream.
It swallowed her as if she were a small pebble.

Maeve obeyed Modron and made sure the brooch was always worn next to the
baby's skin. The baby survived the night, and grew from childhood into
youth, and from youth into manhood. The elves named him Marne, after
Modron's river. He was strong and skilled, and learned magic from the
elves. He delighted them with his wit, ingenuity, and sometimes his
loudness and passion. He loved them dearly, especially Maeve. He honored
her and called her mother. When the elves dropped their thank offerings
for Modron in a deep spring in the wood, he always accompanied and gave
whatever he had that was best. He wore the brooch on his clothing, only
taking it off to sleep or hunt. The decades passed and he never aged
beyond the peak of his manhood. Sometimes, however, he would become sad
and silent, and disappear for days into the forest. Maeve asked him what
he sought, and he said he did not know.

Then he disappeared for three years. The elves sought him throughout the
forest but could not find him. They missed him greatly, and grieved. It
was many months before he appeared again. When he did, his step had a
spring in it, his hair had been cut to his shoulders, and his eyes
sparkled, but he still wore the brooch on his shoulder. "Mother!" he
cried, when he saw Maeve. "I have found what I sought!"

"And what was it, my son, that could take you from us for so long?"
inquired his mother, opening her arms to him.

"I have found my people. I have found a wife!"

"A wife, Marne? Why should you need a wife when you have us?" She
lowered her arms and looked upon him sadly.

"I love you, more than I can say. But I love my wife more than life
itself. She is more beautiful than the moon on the water! You must see
her; I have brought her into the forest, and she is only a short walk
away."

The elves were hesitant to see the human woman and to be seen; but Marne
finally persuaded them that she would not harm them.

Marne had left the woman under a great oak tree. The elves wondered at
her. She was tall but quiet, with tangled red hair that fell to her
waist. There was little that was particularly lovely about her, but
Marne gazed at her as if she were a goddess. When Maeve saw how Marne
loved the woman, she relented. She begged Marne to live close to the
edge of the forest and to return often. Marne gave his word, and in
addition promised that they might have his children for visits as often
as they liked. At the end of the day, Marne took his wife by the hand
and led her out of the forest. The elves melted back into the shadows,
wondering at the sadness and the sweetness brought on by Marne's new
life.

Marne built a hut at the edge of the forest, and he gave Modron's brooch
to his wife. As the years went by, she aged almost as little as did her
husband. Marne visited Maeve often, and ran on night hunts with the
elves as he used. The elves were happy, for though they did not seen
Marne as often as they would have liked, when he came he often brought
one of his children. Yet as the children grew up they married and moved
away from their father, and grew as fearful of the elves as the
villagers they lived with. Marne's wife grieved that her children did
not visit her, and so she and Marne began to make visits to the villages
where their children had settled.

But to one village, they came only once and never returned. The priest
of the village was an old and powerful man. His green eyes mingled
knowledge and madness. His gaze followed Marne and his wife wherever
they went. So Marne left in haste and did not visit the villages of men
for a while after that. But when he and his wife once again journeyed
from the eaves of the forest to visit their children, he found that he
had become notorious. Strangers stared at them in the street, and
children hid from them. Even their own son looked at them warily. "They
say you are immortal; they fear you are fey," he told them.

"So what if I am?" replied Marne.

When Marne told the elves of what had happened, they warned him that he
was in grave danger. "When the humans decide something is fey, they fear
it. And what they fear, they either worship or seek to destroy. You must
leave your house and live somewhere else," they warned.

Marne spoke of it to his wife, but she was loathe to leave her children.

Three months later, as Marne and his wife slept in their bed, someone
banged on the door of their home. Marne arose with his spear in his hand
and opened the door. Standing in the moonlight was the priest with the
green eyes. He held a scythe and sprigs of oak and ivy. "Might I come
in, Marne the Immortal?" He asked. His eyes were more mad than ever.

"State your business first," replied Marne sternly. The priest grinned.

"I am powerful. No spear can harm me, and only the magic of the gods can
overcome me. Yet I am old, and I cannot stop my age. It creeps up on me
and steals my strength. But you, O Marne, you and your wife, have not
aged for over a score of years. You look as young and as fresh as the
day you married. I seek the secret to immortality. Would you stand in my
way?"

"You stand in the way of a good night's sleep, old man. Why should I do
anything for you?" said Marne angrily.

"Because I can take whatever I like," replied the priest, and suddenly
he pushed on the door. He was surprisingly strong, and he opened it
despite Marne's effort to hold it closed. He leapt into the middle of
floor, and held his ivy and oak out as if to ward Marne off. "Tell me,
what is the key to your immortality? Is it the gods? Is it the elves?
Come, do not be surprised. Your son tells me you were raised by the
elves. Where are they?"

"I will not tell you, mad man."

"I will make you!" cried the priest, and he lunged at Marne. Marne
braced himself and his spear cut along the old man's ribs. But the
priest was unharmed; not one drop of blood was spilled. He was on top of
Marne, pushing him down, and held the scythe to his throat. "Tell me
where the elves are!" he cried.

Marne's wife picked up the heavy copper cauldron that was on the dying
embers of the hearth, heaved it above the priest's head, and let it fall
crashing down upon him. The priest sprang to his feet and turned upon
Marne's wife. She ran from him, but Marne scrambled up and twisted the
priest's arm till he dropped the scythe. They wrestled up and down the
floor of the hut, as Marne's wife cowered in a corner and the moon shone
down on the house. Though Marne was undying and strong, he had but the
strength of a man. He began to weary, and the priest knew it. His mad
grin grew wider. Marne thought desperately of any other weapon that he
might be able to use. Suddenly the brooch, lying by the bed, caught the
glow of the embers on the hearth. He wrenched away from the priest and
dived for the brooch. As the old man sprang on him again, Marne held the
point of the brooch firmly between his fingers and thrust it upwards.
The point plunged deep into the throat of the priest. He staggered back,
blood oozing from the wound. He gasped, stumbled, and fell.

Marne crawled over and rolled the body of the priest so that it faced
upwards. The old man was dead. Next Marne looked for the brooch. He
found it beside the priest; but the point had snapped off in the dead
man's throat when he fell. Marne sat back, dazed, holding the broken
brooch in his hands.

A few days later, Marne placed the broken brooch into Maeve's hands. She
gazed blankly at him; then she gave a broken, guttural cry. Bitter tears
indeed watered the forest that night.

***

Once the first grey hairs appeared upon Marne's head, the villagers
forgot the rumors of fey origins, and welcomed him as a respected though
slightly strange individual. Soon there came a day he could no longer
join the elves on their midnight hunts. But he and his wife saw many
grandchildren and lived to a ripe old age. After many years, he died.
His eldest son, the one who had visited Maeve the most often and feared
the fey the least, said that he ought to tell the elves that Marne had
died. Some of his brothers agreed with them, but none offered to
accompany him into the forest. So he went alone, tracing half-forgotten
paths deeper and deeper into the darkness.

Finally he arrived at a well-remembered clearing, with a stream flowing
through it. But the clearing was empty, save for a stone altar with a
broken brooch and a plaid shawl folded carefully resting upon it.