---
name: Abi
surname: Churchill
title: "Raskolnikov's Crosses: Revitalizing Weights"
authordescription: Abi is a senior Journalism major from Texas. 
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/3/3/raskolnikov-s-crosses/"
---

Throughout *Crime and Punishment*, Raskolnikov gives inconsistent
explanations for the motives behind his murder of the old pawnbroker and
her sister. First he blames his mother, then his greed, and finally, he
credits his theory. This theory has two parts: first, Raskolnikov seeks
to be superior to his fellow man; second, he seeks to be superior to
morality.[^1] This is supported by Dostoevsky's use of crosses as
indicators of Raskolnikov's internal condition throughout the novel. Two
crosses make repeated appearances: a wooden cross belonging to the
pawnbroker and a copper cross belonging to Lizaveta.[^2] The loss of
these two crosses during the murder of the pawnbroker and her sister
symbolizes Raskolnikov's loss of humility and morality; their gradual
return signifies his restoration to wholeness.

The two crosses found on the old woman's body represent what Raskolnikov
lost by committing the murder: his humility and morality. Dostoevsky
specifies that one cross is made of cypress wood and the other of
copper.[^3] Later, when looking at two nearly identical crosses,
Raskolnikov notes that the wooden cross is a "peasant one" and the
copper cross belongs to Lizaveta.[^4] The wooden peasant's cross
symbolizes humility, while the copper cross symbolizes morality. In his
first encounter with these crosses, Raskolnikov saws them off the old
woman's neck with a bloody axe and hurriedly thrusts them away.[^5]
After apparently proving his theory, Raskolnikov believes he is superior
to the average man and thus has no need of morals. The crosses of
humility and morality are no longer a part of Raskolnikov's life.

Raskolnikov intends by killing the old woman to eliminate her cross,
humility. When he goes to see her, he plans to kill her and prove to
himself that he is not a louse but a Napoleon. Killing her proves his
theory, and proving his theory means proving himself superior and above
the need for humility. So, after killing her, he throws her cross down
upon her body in a symbolic depiction of his spiritual rejection of
humility. Because of this rejection, he spends the majority of the book
thinking of nothing but his murder of the pawnbroker and how to escape.
Unconcerned with the morality of his action, Raskolnikov only considers
how it proves his theory and himself. If he can escape detection, it is
further proof that he is superior. Raskolnikov does not just plan to
kill the old woman, he also plans to kill his humility.

Lizaveta's copper cross, morality, is as much an unintended victim of
the murder as its wearer herself. When confessing to Sonia, Raskolnikov
tells her that he "meant to kill the old woman when she was alone ...
and then Lizaveta came in ... he killed her too."[^6] In the same way
that Raskolnikov finds it unexpectedly necessary to kill Lizaveta, he
finds it unexpectedly necessary to kill his morality in order to hide
his guilt. He flings the copper cross down beside the wooden cross. For
several days he thinks so little of having murdered Lizaveta that he
himself even wonders why this is.[^7] Obsessed with escaping and proving
his superiority, Raskolnikov intentionally silences his conscience and,
consequently, his murder of Lizaveta. It is only when talking with
Sonia, the strongest moral presence in his life, that Lizaveta begins to
move to the front of his mind. Raskolnikov finds it necessary to silence
his morality to justify his crime, and so he does.

A wooden cross appears on three different occasions, each marking a
different stage in Raskolnikov's belief in his superiority. During its
first appearance on the still warm neck of the murdered pawnbroker,
Raskolnikov is filled with pride. This pride is the very thing that led
him to believe he could commit such an act, and he believes it to be
fully justified by the fact that he has just successfully carried out
the murder. So he spurns the cross. At its second appearance during his
confession to Sonia, Raskolnikov's pride is beginning to crack. Although
he will hardly admit it to himself, he senses his own inadequacy and has
flashes of humility. When Sonia offers him the wooden cross, he reaches
out for it before quickly changing his mind.[^8] He can neither spurn
nor accept the cross. Its final appearance is immediately before his
confession, where Raskolnikov gives up his dream of being a Napoleon.
This time, he accepts the cross. After receiving the cross from Sonia,
he follows her advice to bow down, kiss the earth, "and then bow down to
all the world" in an act of abject humility.[^9] Raskolnikov, at last
able to admit that he is not superior to the average man, relinquishes
his pride and takes up the wooden peasant cross. Each stage of
Raskolnikov's internal struggle with his pride is marked by the
appearance of a wooden cross. It is not until he puts the cross around
his neck that he can admit his lack of superiority.

The second appearance of Lizaveta's copper cross in the hands of Sonia
marks the beginning of Raskolnikov's path to redemption. After hearing
his confession, Sonia offers him the wooden cross and says she will put
on the copper one.[^10] By doing so, Sonia not only chooses to bear the
moral guilt for his crime but also literally takes upon herself the
symbol for morality, marking herself as the new personification of it.
Raskolnikov himself senses this and feels that she "stood before him as
an irrevocable sentence. He must go his way or hers."[^11] He is
innately aware that he must either submit to morality or reject it---and
Sonia---forever. This struggle is seen in his intentional torture of
Sonia in Siberia. Unwilling to admit that his murder is a crime, he must
keep morality at bay. Finally, the dam shatters and an unknown force
throws him at her feet.[^12] Raskolnikov, the murderer who murdered his
own morality, now clutches the knees of the one who symbolizes morality.
New life is born as the copper cross of his victim gleams on the neck of
the one who showed him the truth.

The crosses in *Crime and Punishment* are markers of their wearers' role
in the story, whether that be innocent victim, unintended casualty, or
unwanted truth. Dostoevsky uses them as signs that trace Raskolnikov's
rejection of, battle against, and eventual acceptance of humility and
morality. Without both crosses in place, Raskolnikov is unable to begin
the path to true redemption. For with no fall, there is no redemption.
It is not until Raskolnikov admits his own guilt that he can begin to be
forgiven and cleansed of his sin. After picking up the wooden and copper
crosses and tying them around his neck, Raskolnikov is able to begin his
journey towards the final cross on Calvary.

## Bibliography

Dostoevsky, Fyodor. *Crime and Punishment*. New York: Bantam Dell, 2003.

Churchill, Karis. "The Rational Madman." AP English Literature and
Composition, 2016.

[^1]: Thank you to Karis Churchill for her analysis of Raskolnikov's
    theory.

[^2]: For the purposes of this paper, the original set of crosses and
    the later set (a different wooden cross and Lizaveta's copper cross)
    will be referred to as the same pair, since they are clearly
    designed to reflect each other.

[^3]: Fyodor Dostoevsky, *Crime and Punishment,* (New York: Bantam Dell,
    2003), 81.

[^4]: Ibid., 517.

[^5]: Ibid., 81.

[^6]: Dostoevsky, 405.

[^7]: Ibid., 190.

[^8]: Dostoevsky, 418.

[^9]: Ibid., 415, 520.

[^10]: Dostoevsky, 417.

[^11]: Ibid., 458.

[^12]: Ibid., 541.
