---
name: N. D.
surname: Mangrobang
title: "The Savior's Suffering: An Analysis of the Messiah's Predicted Suffering
in Psalm 22"
authordescription: N. D. Mangrobang is a junior Classical Liberal arts major from California.
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/3/3/the-savior-s-suffering/"
---

When discussing the Messianic passages in the Old Testament, the Psalms
provide some of the most vivid and dramatic prophecies of the coming
Anointed One. Most of these passages were written by David, sometimes in
response to a certain event in his life. Other psalmists include
Solomon, the sons of Korah, and other unattributed authors. While all
Messianic Psalms build upon previously revealed aspects about the
Messiah, Psalm 22 provides one of the most profound, passionate glimpses
into the nature of the promised Anointed One. This Davidic psalm,
classified as one of the six passional psalms, speaks of God's
deliverance and aid amid grave distress.[^1] However, the passage also
reveals an even greater aspect of the Messiah. This paper seeks to
discuss how through David's suffering, God revealed both the nature and
gravity of what the Messiah would have to endure to redeem God's people.
Psalm 22 grants the church a glimpse into the anguish of Christ and His
ultimate victory over sin and death.

The context behind Psalm 22 has been the subject of much debate amongst
scholars. Although David endured much anguish throughout his life, it is
unclear as to whether a specific moment in his life inspired him to
write this psalm. What is unique about this particular passage is that
the psalmist speaks of an execution that is strangely like the
crucifixion that Jesus experienced. Verses 16 to 18, for example,
describes how the psalmist's hands and feet have been pierced, how
onlookers gloat over him, and how his clothes are gambled off by
bystanders.[^2] According to Derek Kidner, the closest scenario to an
execution that David ever experienced was when the people of Ziklag
threatened to stone him for the loss of their women and children (1
Samuel 30:6).[^3] Some scholars speculate that the inspiration for the
psalm came from a humiliation ritual that the Israelites performed that
mirrored the Babylonians.[^4] However, no such direct evidence for this
ritual exists besides an inference from the passage. Additionally, the
sharp distinction between suffering and worship has led many to conclude
that the psalm was originally two separate pieces fused into one. The
problem with this theory is that it fails to account for the consistency
and unity that the supposedly-fused psalm possesses.[^5] Peter C.
Craigie notes that the language of the psalm denotes a liturgical use,
wherein the worshipper moves from lament to thanksgiving.[^6] Despite
numerous attempts, scholars cannot agree on the source behind the
psalm's inspiration.

John Calvin, however, maintains a different focus behind the context of
the psalm. Instead of attempting to find the mystical significance
behind the psalm and its Messianic contents, Calvin merely concludes
that, "it appears that David does not here refer merely to the to one
persecution, but comprehends all the persecutions which he suffered
under Saul."[^7] While Calvin admits that it is unclear as to what
occasion specifically inspired the creation of Psalm 22, it is clear
enough that it communicates David's anguish and desire for divine
relief.[^8] Furthermore, the New Testament undisputedly identifies this
passage as one of the Old Testament's Messianic prophecies without
attempting to artificially tie it to a historical context. The best
explanation for the context behind Psalm 22 comes from Walter C. Kaiser.
Although he acknowledges the mystery behind the source of David's
inspiration for the psalm, he asserts that this can distract from the
Messianic aspects of the passage. As he states, "David did experience
unusual suffering, but under a revelation from God he witnessed
suffering of one of his offspring, that far transcends anything that
came his way."[^9] The specific misery that led David to write Psalm 22
remains uncertain, but it is clear that God used the psalmist's present
situation to reveal an aspect of the Messiah's nature. Bishop Leo the
Great describes this as prophetic locution: Although David never
suffered any of the hardships he describes in the psalm, the Holy Spirit
used him to foreshadow the sufferings that his offspring, the Messiah,
would experience. As he puts it, "Because the Lord---who was going to
take the suffering flesh from David's stock---spoke through his mouth,
the history of the crucifixion has rightly been prefigured in the person
of David."[^10]

The psalm is divided into two main parts: verses 1-21 describe the
psalmist's suffering, and verses 22-31 depict the deliverance from
anguish by the Lord's hand. The first division follows a general pattern
where David expresses his despair but also reaffirms his confidence in
God's presence and sovereignty. The second division speaks of both the
congregation's reaction to the psalmist's deliverance and of the
universal implications of God's aid.

Verse 1 is the most familiar aspect of the psalm. The words, "My God, my
God, why have you forsaken me?" were quoted by Jesus Himself when He
hung on the cross.[^11] Here, the psalmist declares his cry of anguish
before God. What is important to recognize in this verse is that David's
cry is not from a lack of faith, but from a sense of disorientation: he
feels as if God's protective presence has withdrawn from him, and he can
sense the enemy's presence closing in.[^12] This is captured in the next
sentence, "Why are you so far from saving me, from the words of my
groaning?" However, within the Messianic context, this cry foretells the
painful experience that the Anointed One would endure. To redeem God's
people, the Messiah would be forsaken by the Father, "becoming a curse
for us."[^13]Additionally, the Hebrew term for "My God" that is employed
in the passage, *eli*, is a pronoun of endearment that only those who
serve Yahweh could use. In other words, the psalmist invokes a personal
cry to God for help, regarding Him as his Father.[^14] Within the
Messianic context, it is only fitting that Jesus, the Son of God, would
cry out to His Father while on the cross.

In verses 3 to 5, the psalmist reaffirms his confidence in the Lord's
faithfulness, remembering how his fathers trusted God during their
sufferings and how they were delivered by His hand. The psalmist,
recalling God's wondrous deeds to Israel in the past, clings to the Lord
for help and declares that He is holy. David continues to do this two
more times in the psalm in verses 9 to 11 and verses 19 to 21.

The Messianic parallels in verses 6 to 8 with the taunts of the
Pharisees during Jesus' crucifixion are worth noting here. In verse 6,
the psalmist calls himself a worm, implying not only a state of decay
and unpleasantness, but also an image of being near to death
itself.[^15] Craigie points out that the primary problem is not sickness
or death, but the perceived silence of God.[^16] This is exacerbated by
the secondary issue of the mockers that surround the psalmist, who scorn
his faith in God. Calvin explains that the Hebrew phrase "to thrust out
their lip" is a gesture of mocking or incredulous speech. What makes
their speech so potent is that they not only ridicule his faith in God
but accuse him of falsely pretending to be His child.[^17] This ridicule
is reproduced during the crucifixion, when the Pharisees assert, "He
trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him. For he said,
'I am the Son of God."[^18] When examining the psalm's immediate meaning
with its Messianic fulfillment, the gravity of the Pharisees' jeering
towards Jesus becomes graver. Not only are they criticizing his faith,
but they also declare that He is both a hypocrite and a false follower
of God.[^19]

Verses 12 to 18 contain some of the most vivid descriptions of David's
suffering. In verse 12, the psalmist equates his enemies with the "bulls
of Bashan.[^20] While most translations render the passage as "many"
bulls, Calvin reveals that the original Hebrew term, *rabbim*, was
commonly translated as "strong." The emphasis, therefore, is not on the
number of enemies poised against the psalmist, but on their sheer might
in opposing him.[^21] Verse 13 builds upon this description by
describing the mockers as ravenous, roaring lions. While verses 14 and
15 describe the physical anguish that David experienced at the hands of
his oppressors, within the Messianic fulfillment in Jesus, they speak of
the symptoms that Jesus had when He hung on the cross: his bones are
disjointed, his heart is "melted like wax", his strength is dried up,
his mouth is dry, and he is close to death.[^22]

Verse 16 contains one of the clearest images of the Messiah's suffering,
with the psalmist declaring that his enemies have "pierced his hands and
feet". As previously mentioned, Scripture contains no record of David
having experienced an execution, let alone a scenario where his foes
pierced his hands and feet. The Hebrew term translated as "they have
pierced" is the term *caari*. While its literal translation is "like a
lion", the marginal reading of the text suggests that the term should be
translated "they pierced".[^23] The Septuagint, compiled two centuries
before the crucifixion, confirms this translation.[^24] However, there
is major opposition to this rendering of the term. Calvin explains that
all Hebrew Bibles translate the term literally, claiming that the
Christian translation is a corruption of the original manuscript.[^25]
Kidner also identifies other linguistic alternatives, such as "bound" or
"hacked off", that attempt to avoid the "pierced" translation. However,
upon evaluating other translations, such as the Vulgate, Syriac, Arabic,
and Ethiopic, Calvin concludes that the proper translation is "they have
pierced."[^26] Most opponents to this understanding of the Psalm argue
that it would not make sense for David to write about his hands and feet
being pierced, since he never experienced such a scenario during his
lifetime. However, as Calvin identifies, it is more probable that this
is an instance of the Holy Spirit directing David to prophesy about the
coming Messiah. In writing this psalm, David used a similitude,
comparing his sufferings with that of a man whose hands and feet were
pierced. This would ultimately foreshadow Christ's crucifixion, where
His hands and feet would be literally pierced.

Verse 18 also contains prophetic insight into the sufferings of the
Messiah, with the psalmist watching as his enemies divide up his
clothing by lot. This is ultimately fulfilled in Matthew 27:35 and John
19:23-24, where the Roman soldiers gamble for possession over Jesus'
seamless robe. Chrysostom notes that the soldiers' wickedness was cause
behind the prophecy's fulfillment: although they were motivated by evil,
their actions ultimately brought the psalmist's foretelling to
fruition.[^27]

The psalm makes a shift in mood starting in verse 22, where David
suddenly declares that he will tell of the Lord's name to his brothers
and praise Him amongst the congregation. God has rescued him from his
suffering, and out of gratitude he will worship the Lord in gladness. In
verse 23, the psalmist compels the congregation to sing praises to God
for His mighty deeds because, as verse 24 states, God has not abandoned
them during their anguish. Building upon the liturgical use of the
psalm, Craigie notes that the psalmist's declaration of worship is
offered in the midst of the assembly, with an invitation for all God's
people to praise the Lord.[^28] This second half of the psalm is a
complete reversal of the first half. Whereas the psalmist felt as if God
had abandoned him in his time of need, now he sings songs of worship to
God for His faithfulness and holiness.

Verse 25, in particular, is set as the antithesis to verses 2 and 3. In
the earlier verses, David sadly proclaims that God is holy and worthy of
praise, despite the fact that He has not answered his cries for rest.
But in the later verse, the psalmist declares that he will
enthusiastically worship the Lord amidst the congregation for His
deliverance.[^29] Eusebius of Caesarea connects the fulfillment of this
aspect of the Messianic passage with Jesus' appearance to the disciples
after His resurrection. The apostles, he asserts, are the brothers
mentioned in verse 22, while the congregation is the early church that
will proclaim His name to all the nations.[^30] This fulfillment is
supported in Hebrews 2:11-12, which directly cites this passage when
speaking of Christ's sanctification of the church.[^31] Thus, within
Christ's complete fulfillment of this prophecy, it is the church that is
commanded to sing praises to God for His faithfulness. Because Jesus has
overcome the sufferings of the grave and has succeeded in redeeming
God's people, the church's response must be one of thanksgiving and
worship to the Lord.

The final portion of Psalm 22, verses 27 to 31, foretells of the cosmic
implications of the psalmist's victory. Not only shall the congregation
worship God, but the "ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the
Lord."[^32] This remembrance has multiple interpretations amongst
scholars. Some assert that the Gentiles will remember their sins,
particularly their idolatry, others contend that they will remember
God's goodness through Christ, while another camp claims that they will
remember and worship the true God, instead of their idols.[^33] However,
the clearest understanding of this remembrance comes from Calvin's
exegesis, which connects the verse with the rest of the passage and
argues that the nations will remember and embrace the one true God,
which they had forsaken.[^34] Verse 28, he contends, supports this view,
as it declares that Lord will assert His dominion over the nations. The
Messiah would ultimately rule the earth, and all the people of the world
would know His name.

The final verses speak of how future generations would be blessed by the
psalmist. Verses 30 and 31 foretell how the Lord will be proclaimed to
the coming generations.[^35] They also prophecy the perpetual existence
of the church in the dominion of Christ. This does not mean that the
body of believers will always flourish or remain in a uniform course,
but it does suggest that God will always raise up a people who are
faithful to Him.[^36] The psalm finally ends with a confirmation of the
Lord's actions: "he has done it."[^37]

Before departing from this psalm, it is important to note that the
latter half of the passage must explicitly apply to the coming Messiah.
Although David enjoyed much success as a king, he did not experience any
semblance of the glory described in the second division of the psalm. As
discussed in the beginning of this analysis, the Lord spoke through
David's writings to grant a glimpse of the coming Messiah's sufferings
and ultimate victory. Theodoret of Cyr best describes this concept: "We
see none of this happening to David or to any of his successors. Only
Christ the Lord, on the contrary, who is of David according to the
flesh...he filled all earth and sea with the knowledge of God, after
all, and persuaded those who were once in terror and offered adoration
to idols to adore the true God instead of false gods."[^38]

Throughout this paper, it is evident that through David's suffering, God
revealed both the nature and gravity of what the Messiah would have to
endure to redeem God's people. Psalm 22 grants the church a glimpse into
the anguish of Christ and His ultimate victory over sin and death.
Although the psalm may have had an immediate context that remains
unknown, it is evident that the true purpose behind the passage was to
grant God's people, both during the time of David and in the present
age, a glimpse into the sufferings that Jesus Christ experienced on
behalf of God's people. Through this psalm, the church can begin to
comprehend the gravity of Christ's love for His congregation and take
comfort in His ultimate victory.

## Works Cited

Blaising, Craig A., Carmen Hardin, and Thomas C. Oden, eds. *Ancient
Christian Commentary on Scripture: Psalms 1-50*. Downers Grove, IL:
InterVarsity Press, 2008.

Calvin, Jean. *Calvin\'s Commentaries*. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books,
1999.

Craigie, Peter C. *Word Biblical Commentary: Psalms 1-50*. Vol. 19.
Waco, TX: Thomas Nelson, 1983.

Kaiser, Walter C. *The Messiah in the Old Testament*. Grand Rapids, MI:
Zondervan Publishing House, 1995.

Kidner, Derek. *Psalms 1-72*. Downers Grove, IL: InterVasity Press,
1973.

Stamps, Donald C., Carey Huffman, and J. Wesley Adams, eds. *Fire Bible:
Student Edition*. Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publishers, 2011.

[^1]: According to Walter C. Kaiser, the six passional psalms are Psalms
    22, 35, 41, 55, 79, and 109. (Walter C. Kaiser, *The Messiah in the
    Old Testament* (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House, 1995),
    111).

[^2]: Psalm 22:16-18.

[^3]: Derek Kidner, *Psalms 1-72* (Downers Grove, IL: InterVasity Press,
    1973), 105. The Amalekites had raided Ziklag and taken captive the
    city's women and children before David and his men could arrive.
    David's two wives, Abigail the widow of Nabal of Carmel and Ahinoam
    of Jezreel, were among those taken captive. Because of their
    distress, David's men threatened to stone him. Despite this, 1
    Samuel 30:6 notes that David "strengthened himself in the Lord his
    God." Although this account showcases David's faithfulness to God
    despite unexpected loss and anguish, it does not serve as the
    context for Psalm 22 primarily because the threatened "execution"
    did not happen. Additionally, the people threatened to stone David,
    not pierce his hands and feet and divide up his clothing by lot. (1
    Samuel 30:1-6)

[^4]: Kidner, 10-11. Some scholars believe that the king would regularly
    perform in a cultic drama that depicted him as the adopted son of
    God. Kidner describes it as such: "first the Creator's quelling of
    His cosmic foes, to reassert His kingship and renew the earth; then
    the Davidic king's struggle with the kings of the earth and the
    power of death, in which he was humiliated and all but engulfed, to
    be rescued in the nick of time." Kidner explains that most scholars
    find this view attractive because it casts the psalms within a
    context of excitement and color, like a New Year festival. However,
    little to no concrete evidence exists to support this theory.

[^5]: Peter C. Craigie, *Word Biblical Commentary: Psalms 1-50*, vol. 19
    (Waco, TX: Thomas Nelson, 1983), 197.

[^6]: Craigie theorizes that the purpose of the psalm was written as a
    liturgical piece for the fatally sick. These worshippers would
    participate in the psalm in hopes of receiving healing. (Craigie,
    198).

[^7]: Jean Calvin, *Calvin\'s Commentaries* (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker
    Books, 1999), 357.

[^8]: Calvin, 357.

[^9]: Kaiser, 113.

[^10]: Leo the Great, "Sermon 67", 1-2, in *Ancient Christian Commentary
    on Scripture: Psalm 1-50*, eds. Craig A. Blaising, Carmen Hardin,
    and Thomas C. Oden, (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press, 2008),
    168.

[^11]: Matthew 27:45-49 and Mark 15:33-37.

[^12]: Kidner, 106.

[^13]: Galatians 3:13.

[^14]: It is important that the emphasis is "*My* God, *my* God!" and
    not "My *God,* my *God!*" The latter would be interpreted as
    blasphemy before the Father. The former, however, properly conveys
    the intended tone and relationship between the psalmist and God. In
    the Hebrew, the emphasis is specifically on the beginning of the
    phrase: '*eli,* '*eli.* (Kaiser, 114).

[^15]: Craigie, 199.

[^16]: Craigie, 199.

[^17]: Calvin, 367.

[^18]: Matthew 27:43.

[^19]: Craigie also notes that the mockers' words are extremely potent
    because they are laced with a semblance of truth. The following
    verses, verses 9 to 11, only strengthen their assertion: although
    the Lord was with the psalmist from birth, He has now seemingly
    abandoned him during his moment of great despair. (Craigie, 199).
    Additionally, Kaiser briefly points out that David specifically
    mentions his mother, but not his father, in verses 9 and 10 as the
    one who brings forth the Messiah in the line of David. Although few
    other commentaries make note of this, it is possible that this could
    be referring to Mary's role as Jesus' earthly mother. Through her,
    the Messiah would make His earthly entrance, and it is very likely
    that Jesus thought about Mary as He hung on the cross. (Kaiser,
    115).

[^20]: Bashan was known for its large, fat cattle. This reference
    further supports the image presented by the psalmist: his enemies
    are large, mighty, and threaten to terminate him. (Craigie, 200).

[^21]: Calvin, 371.

[^22]: While few commentaries mention this, it is interesting that the
    psalmist in verse 15 states that his "tongue sticks to the \[his\]
    jaws." When on the cross, Jesus declares, "I thirst". He is then
    given a sponge soaked in sour wine to drink from. (John 19:28-30).

[^23]: The term derives from the root *carah*, which means "to cut, dig,
    or pierce". (Calvin, 373).

[^24]: Kidner, 107.

[^25]: Calvin, 373.

[^26]: Reading the passage with the literal translation renders the
    verse unintelligible. While some scholars claim that the Jews
    intentionally corrupted the original manuscript, it is more likely
    that the change was unintentional, substituting the letter *yod* for
    the letter *vau*. This oversight would justify the literal Hebrew
    translation of the verse. (Calvin, 373-374).

[^27]: Chrysostom also notes that the soldiers only cast lots for Jesus'
    garments, not the other two prisoners, further illustrating that God
    used the soldiers' wicked intentions to bring about the promised
    redemption of His people. (Chrysostom, "Homilies on the Gospel of
    John", 85, in *Ancient Christian Commentary on Scripture: Psalm
    1-50*, eds. Craig A. Blaising, Carmen Hardin, and Thomas C. Oden,
    (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press, 2008), 174).

[^28]: Craigie, 200-201.

[^29]: Craigie, 201.

[^30]: Eusebius of Caesarea, 174. Eusebius of Caesarea, "Proof of the
    Gospel", 10.8.508, in *Ancient Christian Commentary on Scripture:
    Psalm 1-50*, eds. Craig A. Blaising, Carmen Hardin, and Thomas C.
    Oden, (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press, 2008), 174-175.

[^31]: "For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one
    source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers."
    (Hebrews 2:11).

[^32]: Psalm 22:27.

[^33]: Calvin, 384-385.

[^34]: This is further supported by Romans 1:18-32, which describes how
    mankind, out of wickedness, chose to suppress the truth of God. As
    verses 21 to 23 state, "For although they knew God, they did not
    honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in
    their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to
    be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal
    God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and
    creeping things." The remembrance of the nations in Psalm 22:27,
    therefore, would be referring to man's rejection of God and
    foreshadowing their return to serving the Lord.

[^35]: Calvin explains that the expression, "it shall be told of the
    Lord to the coming generation" in verse 30 can be translated either
    as "succession of ages" (from the Hebrew term *dor*), or
    "generations (from the Latin term *natio*). Regardless, either
    translation conveys the intending meaning. (Calvin, 388).

[^36]: Calvin, 388.

[^37]: Psalm 22:31.

[^38]: Theodoret of Cyr, "Commentary on the Psalms", 22.18, in *Ancient
    Christian Commentary on Scripture: Psalm 1-50*, eds. Craig A.
    Blaising, Carmen Hardin, and Thomas C. Oden, (Downers Grove, IL:
    InterVarsity Press, 2008), 176.
