---
name: Hannah
surname: Kim
title: "The Inevitability of Death: Responding to the Tension between the Ideal and the Real"
authordescription: Hannah is  Junior Classical Liberal Arts major from California. 
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/3/3/the-inevitability-of-death/"
---

Tension is inherent to the condition of man. Human beings are creatures
of the greatest potential, capable of building skyscrapers, composing
symphonies, and writing sonnets, capable of the deepest feelings and
expressions of love. But so many people are kept from realizing this
potential due to poverty, disease, injustice, and even their own
failures and flaws. Broken as humans are, most retain a longing for the
ideal, a desire to see and experience goodness, truth, and beauty. Such
is the tension of the human condition: longing for the ideal while being
constantly disillusioned by the real.[^1] How an individual responds to
this tension fundamentally shapes his course of life.

Fyodor Dostoevsky's timeless novel *Crime and Punishment* explores the
tension between the ideal and the real. The different characters in the
story illustrate three possible responses to this tension: embrace vice,
wallow in despair, or repent of sin. Each response involves death in
some way. To embrace vice is to put to death one's spiritual and moral
sensibilities; wallowing in despair leads to the metaphorical death of
escapism or the literal death of suicide; repentance involves that death
of one's sinful self which alone leads to the resurrection of new life.
Analyzing various characters in *Crime and Punishment* brings out the
contrast of the three different responses. The character of Raskolnikov
experiences all three of them, ultimately demonstrating that only the
third response can resolve the tension between the ideal and the real.

## The First Response: Embracing Vice

The first response of embracing vice is an attempt to resolve the
tension between the ideal and the real by abandoning the ideal. Those
who follow this response create their own pseudo-ideals based on their
physical or material desires. They sacrifice their moral conscience in
order to embrace the muddiness of the cruel world, seeking the
fulfillment of their desires by whatever means necessary. No character
in *Crime and Punishment* so fully embraces this vicious lifestyle as
Arkady Ivanovitch Svidrigaïlov. Svidrigaïlov shamelessly lives his life
according to that infamous maxim of David Hume that "\[r\]eason is the
slave of passion."[^2] Svidrigaïlov is the sort of man who married a
wealthy woman just to get out of debtor's prison, who had no qualms
about being unfaithful, who even struck his wife twice with a switch
without a twinge of conscience, even after she subsequently passed
away.[^3] Thus, in order to reconcile the tension between the ideal and
the real, Svidrigaïlov conforms his ideals to the reality of his
physical passions. With laughter he remembers "how \[he\] once seduced a
lady who was devoted to her husband, her children, and her principles,"
and with relish he contemplates his engagement as a fifty-year-old man
to a sixteen-year-old girl.[^4] By living in so thoroughly vicious a
manner, Svidrigaïlov had grown completely insensitive to the baseness of
his lifestyle. He put to death his moral sensibilities and abandoned all
higher ideals.

The embracing of vice, however, does not always so clearly manifest
itself in a lifestyle as openly wicked as Svidrigaïlov's. The character
of Pyotr Petrovitch Luzhin exhibits a façade of moral uprightness, but
beneath he too has embraced a life of vice devoted to obtaining his
material desires. For example, Luzhin's conception of helping his
neighbor consists entirely in helping himself, as he explains, "in
acquiring wealth solely and exclusively for myself, I am acquiring, so
to speak, for all...."[^5] Even in offering his hand in marriage to
Raskolnikov's sister Dounia, Luzhin seeks his own interest, not that of
Dounia. He deliberately desires to marry a girl in poverty from the
belief that "marriage with a poor girl who has had experience of trouble
is more advantageous from the conjugal point of view than with one who
has lived in luxury."[^6] Luzhin wants to make sure that his wife-to-be
would wholly depend on him as her savior. He ultimately cares not for
Dounia's well-being, but only for his own pride. Moreover, Luzhin's
façade of moral uprightness is clearly exposed as such when his attempt
to frame Sonia, a young woman driven by poverty into prostitution, fails
miserably. Over the course of his interactions with Raskolnikov, Luzhin
is offended by the fact that Raskolnikov views Sonia as more worthy of
his mother and sister's company than Luzhin himself. Consequently,
Luzhin plans to discredit Raskolnikov by slipping a hundred-rouble note
into Sonia's pocket then having her arrested for theft. His plan is
ruined, however, when his roommate Lebeziatnikov reveals his
fraudulence.[^7] In spite of Luzhin's pride, he is willing to commit
base, vicious acts for the sake of his own self-interest. Therefore, he
has no true ideals beyond the fulfillment of his worldly aspirations.
Luzhin, like Svidrigaïlov, abandoned the ideal and embraced the baseness
of the real world.

A third example of the embracing of vice in order to reconcile the ideal
with the real lies at the heart of the book: the crime of Rodion
Romanovitch Raskolnikov. As a deeply thoughtful person, Raskolnikov
acutely feels the tension of the ideal and the real; he desires to be a
great man, yet he remains mired in poverty. In order to bring himself
out of poverty and one step closer to greatness, Raskolnikov
contemplates murdering and robbing an old pawnbroker woman. In so doing,
Raskolnikov would be stripping away moral ideals from his ideal of
greatness, thereby reconciling it with the cruelty of the real world.
Initially, Raskolnikov's moral sensibilities prevent him from committing
the crime. His sense of morality reveals itself in a dream that he has
of a drunk man beating a horse to death; Raskolnikov is horrified, and
after waking up, he prays, "Lord, show me my path---I renounce that
accursed...dream of mine."[^8] Despite this resolve, a fateful sequence
of events impels Raskolnikov to carry out the gruesome crime. In thus
acting directly contrary to his conscience, Raskolnikov essentially
kills himself---kills his moral sensibilities. Raskolnikov realizes this
some time after the fact, as he later admits to Sonia, "Did I murder the
old woman? I murdered myself, not her! I crushed myself once for all,
for ever...."[^9] Evidently, however, the crime does not wholly
annihilate his sense of morality. Raskolnikov's attempted murder of his
own conscience physically affects him for several days afterwards; his
physical illness reflects his internal struggle with guilt. Whether his
spiritual self would survive the struggle is the fundamental question
underlying the rest of the story.

## The Second Response: Wallowing in Despair

Having attempted the first response to the tension of the ideal and the
real, Raskolnikov finds it dissatisfying. Embracing vice does not
resolve the tension but only disregards it by abandoning the ideal.
Seeing the futility of his crime, Raskolnikov never makes use of the
stolen money or goods. He instead turns to the second response:
wallowing in despair. This response produces a desire to escape the
tension altogether; when left unfulfilled, the desire to escape leaves
one paralyzed in despair. For weeks after the crime, Raskolnikov is in
just such a state of paralysis---constantly wanting to be alone,
tormented by guilt, subject to the caprices of his thoughts and
feelings. In one episode a few days after the murder, Raskolnikov leaves
his apartment with the resolve "that all *this* must be ended today,
once for all, immediately; that he would not return home without it
because he *would not go on living like that*."[^10] Standing on a
bridge over a canal, Raskolnikov considers escaping the tension through
suicide. Upon witnessing another woman's attempted suicide, however, he
decides, "No, that's loathsome...water...it's not good enough."[^11] His
other option is to confess to the police and so consign himself to a
"square yard of space."[^12] But the reality of imprisonment keeps
Raskolnikov from seeking the moral ideal of confession. He is tormented
by guilt, yet he refuses to confess. Indeed, he feels cut off from
society, even from his own mother and sister:

> "Hush, mother," \[Raskolnikov\] muttered in confusion.... "We shall
> have time to speak freely of everything!"
>
> As he said this, he was suddenly overwhelmed with confusion and turned
> pale. Again that awful sensation he had known of late passed with
> deadly chill over his soul. Again it became suddenly plain and
> perceptible to him that he had just told a fearful lie---that he would
> never now be able to speak freely of everything---that he would never
> again be able to *speak* of anything to anyone.[^13]

In this second phase, Raskolnikov's despair compels him to ponder the
ultimate escape from the tension of the ideal and the real---suicide.
Yet unable to either kill himself or turn himself in or even confess his
guilt to anyone, he continues in his paralysis of despair.

Unlike Raskolnikov, Svidrigaïlov has enough willpower to follow through
with his intentions, including the intention to commit suicide. Although
Svidrigaïlov had been able to live his life entirely for himself,
fulfilling his every passion, he eventually develops a desire which he
cannot satisfy: he falls in love with Dounia, a beautiful young woman of
unyielding integrity. Thus, even Svidrigaïlov cannot ignore the tension
between the ideal and the real. For Svidrigaïlov, Dounia embodies those
higher ideals which he had tried to abandon; Dounia brings forth from
Svidrigaïlov the desire for those ideals which he had sought to
suppress. But try as he might, Svidrigaïlov cannot convince Dounia to
love him.[^14] When Svidrigaïlov is finally forced to confront the
tension between the ideal and the real, he too turns to despair. He puts
a revolver to his right temple and pulls the trigger.[^15] Unable to
resolve the tension, he chooses to escape it.

Suicide, however, is not the only way to escape the tension and the
despair. The character Marmeladov escapes his problems not through
suicide but through alcohol. Marmeladov suffers from the tension of
wanting to be a good husband and father yet finding himself utterly
incompetent. For an entire year after his marriage to Katerina Ivanovna,
Marmeladov had been able to avoid drink. "But even so," as he recounts
to Raskolnikov, "I could not please her; and then I lost my place too,
and that through no fault of mine but through changes in the office; and
then I did touch it \[i.e. drink\]!"[^16] Since then Marmeladov and his
family had struggled in poverty. Having returned to his bad habits,
Marmeladov can no longer resist the allure of drink's blissful
forgetfulness; even after securing another job in St. Petersburg, he
uses his earnings to get drunk.[^17] Marmeladov thus finds in alcohol
his only refuge from his own incompetence. Although alcohol might
provide an alternative to suicide for those dealing with despair,
alcohol is still a sort of figurative death. It is the deliberate,
albeit temporary, deadening of one's consciousness. Nonetheless,
Marmeladov's drunkenness does eventually lead to his physical death, for
in one of his drunken stupors, he is run over by a carriage and dies
soon afterward.[^18] The response of despair only leads to death,
whether literal or figurative, immediate or delayed.

## The Third Response: Repenting of Sin

Counterintuitively, the character who seems best able to endure the
tension of the ideal and the real is Sofya Semyonovitch. Sonia arguably
has the most difficult lot of all the characters: she had been driven to
prostitution by poverty, but she gives nearly all of her earnings to
Katerina Ivanovna; she has the acutest sense of morality, yet society
ostracizes her for her prostitution, publicized by the yellow passport
which she must wear. If any character's desire for the ideal should be
broken by the miseries of the real, it should be Sonia's. When
Raskolnikov first visits Sonia in her own room, he notices her
remarkable character. He observes that her shameful position torments
her and wonders how she has not fallen into utter despair:

> Of course he knew that Sonia's position was an exceptional case,
> though unhappily not unique and not infrequent, indeed; but that very
> exceptionalness, her tinge of education, her previous life might, one
> would have thought, have killed her at the first step on that
> revolting path. What held her up---surely not depravity? All that
> infamy had obviously only touched her mechanically, not one drop of
> real depravity had penetrated to her heart; he saw that.[^19]

Raskolnikov soon discovers what holds Sonia up. When he begins to
question her about God, Sonia responds, "What should I be without
God?\... He does everything \[for me\]."[^20] Sonia is able to bear the
tension between the ideal and the real because she has submitted herself
unto God. Raskolnikov then notices Sonia's copy of the New Testament and
asks her to read the story of Lazarus.[^21] Perhaps unknowingly,
Raskolnikov chose a story that touches the heart of the Gospel, the key
to Sonia's inexplicable spiritual strength: the resurrection of the
dead.

In order to rise from the dead, however, one must first die. But the
death which leads to resurrection is neither the spiritual death of
embracing vice nor the physical death of utter despair. It is the death
of one's sinfulness, the daily taking up of one's cross to follow
Christ. Raskolnikov had tried to deal with the tension between the real
and the ideal through the first two options---vice and despair---and had
found them both lacking. He could not bring himself to commit wholly to
crime or to take his own life. For Raskolnikov, only one option
remained: take up his cross. The first step Raskolnikov takes toward
this death of self is his confession to Sonia, who then urges him, "Go
at once, this very minute, stand at the cross-roads, bow down, first
kiss the earth which you have defiled and then bow down to all the world
and say to all men aloud, 'I am a murderer!' *Then God will send you
life again*....Suffer and expiate your sin by it, that's what you must
do."[^22] But Raskolnikov does not immediately submit to suffering---to
the death of his sinful self. It takes more urging from Sonia, from his
sister Dounia, and even from the detective Porfiry Petrovitch before
Raskolnikov turns himself in. Yet even in Siberia, he still clings to
his sin: "he judged himself severely, and his exasperated conscience
found no particularly terrible fault in his past, except a simple
*blunder* which might happen to anyone."[^23] Finally, a miraculous
transformation occurs. After so much internal struggle, Raskolnikov's
pride is broken; he humbles himself before God and before Sonia, whom he
has come to love deeply. When Sonia realizes Raskolnikov's
transformation, the two share a moment of bliss:

> They were both pale and thin; but those sick pale faces were bright
> with the dawn of a new future, of a full resurrection into a new life.
> They were renewed by love; the heart of each held infinite sources of
> life for the heart of the other. They resolved to wait and be patient.
> They had another seven years to wait, and what terrible suffering and
> what infinite happiness before them! But he had risen again and he
> knew it and felt it in all his being, while she---she only lived in
> his life.[^24]

Resurrection from the dead is the breaking through of the ideal into the
real, when the reality of the ideal overcomes the reality of sin and
death. By His life, death, and resurrection, Christ made the realization
of the ideal possible. Men can rest in the hope of resurrection and
renewal, salvation from sin and death. It is this hope which empowers
Sonia and Raskolnikov to endure the suffering of this life---whatever
suffering they might face would not compare to the "infinite happiness"
they had found in love. Moreover, they can now cling to the hope that
one day, the ideal will be perfectly united with the real, and sin and
death shall be no more. In this manner, death to sin and resurrection to
new life resolves the tension between the ideal and the real.

## Objection

Some might think that these three responses to the tension between the
ideal and the real are all rather extreme: most people are not wholly
vicious, most people do not commit suicide, and many people live quite
happily without the repentance of the Christian faith. They might thus
conclude that these responses do not describe most people. On the
contrary, these responses are in fact comprehensive; everyone faces the
tension between the real and the ideal and responds to it in one of the
three ways, though often in subtler forms. The first response of
embracing vice manifests itself in those who desire material well-being
or physical pleasure. They deaden their consciences by dismissing
weighty questions of right and wrong, simply living however they
please---whether amassing fortunes or practicing licentiousness. The
second response of despair characterizes those who seek to escape their
problems through alcohol, drugs, or entertainment. Each means of escape
is a figurative form of physical death: it renders a person impotent and
clouds his mind. The third response, of course, is the mark of any true
follower of Christ. Believers must daily take up their crosses in the
constant battle against sin. Most, if not all, people turn to more than
one response in dealing with the tension between the real and the ideal.
But everyone must face this tension; everyone must face death in some
shape or form. The only question is which part of oneself will die.

## Conclusion

The tension between the real and the ideal exists because the world is
not as it should be; it has been corrupted by sin. Therefore, the
tension can only be resolved by paying the price of sin---namely, death.
Death is the punishment which the Almighty God has prescribed for every
crime committed against Him. Consequently, as fallen human beings we
must face death not only at the end of our lives but even throughout our
days on earth. Every moment we experience the tension of living in a
broken world, a world that repeatedly dashes our dreams of goodness,
truth, and beauty with the realities of evil, falsehood, and suffering.
In order to respond to this tension, some part of us must die. We must
sacrifice either our moral conscience, our mental and physical health,
or our sinful flesh. The story of *Crime and Punishment*, particularly
the development of Raskolnikov's character, illustrates that only one of
the three sacrifices leads to the resurrection of new life. The other
two never truly resolve the tension between the real and the ideal; they
only try to ignore or escape it. Those who follow these paths eventually
find themselves completely cut off from the ideal in the ultimate
death---estrangement from God. But those who submit to the death of
their sinful selves will find themselves raised to new life in union
with Christ. Their ideals will become real; they will be wholly
reconciled with God and adopted as His children. This is the death that
leads to life, "the beginning of a new story."[^25]

## Bibliography

Dostoevsky, Fyodor. *Crime and Punishment*. Translated by Constance
Garnett. New York: Bantam Books, 1981.

[^1]: For the purpose of this paper, I offer the following working
    definitions of the ideal and the real: the ideal represents those
    moral goods encompassed by the three transcendentals (goodness,
    truth, and beauty); the real represents the brokenness of the world.
    In describing a tension between the ideal and the real, I do not
    mean to imply that ideals are *not* real, but only that ideals are
    seemingly impossible to realize in the context of this fallen world.

[^2]: Fyodor Dostoevsky, *Crime and Punishment*, trans. Constance
    Garnett (New York: Bantam Books, 1981), 280.

[^3]: Ibid., 280-281, 467-468.

[^4]: Ibid., 471, 474-475.

[^5]: Ibid., 151.

[^6]: Dostoevsky, 301.

[^7]: Ibid., 386-400.

[^8]: Dostoevsky, 57-63.

[^9]: Ibid., 415.

[^10]: Dostoevsky, 156-157.

[^11]: Ibid., 171-172.

[^12]: Ibid., 172.

[^13]: Ibid., 230.

[^14]: Dostoevsky, 492.

[^15]: Ibid., 506.

[^16]: Ibid., 16.

[^17]: Ibid., 21.

[^18]: Ibid., 177-178.

[^19]: Dostoevsky, 322.

[^20]: Ibid., 322-323.

[^21]: Ibid., 323-327.

[^22]: Dostoevsky, 415-416 (emphasis mine).

[^23]: Ibid., 535.

[^24]: Ibid., 541.

[^25]: Dostoevsky, 542.
