---
title: Death Without Darkness
name: Emma
surname: Sawyer
authordescription: Emma is a senior Classical Liberal Arts major from Florida.
tags: ["narrative nonfiction"]
permalink: "/3/2/death-without-darkness/"
---

The last time I heard Sonia sing was Christmas Eve. Standing with all
her daughters in front of the church, her glowing face showed all the
pride of motherhood and the joy of Christmas. We lit candles and sang
together...little lights to hold before us as we sailed into the storm
we could not see. Christmas came and went. The day after Christmas, I
was climbing into the car with Sonia's eldest daughter, who was eighteen
at the time. Our phones started chiming and ringing, telling us to hurry
to the little hospital on the island. That's where Sonia was.

Eventually, more and more loved ones heard the news and joined us at the
hospital. We were such a big group, Sonia's whole family, my whole
family, all of the Whitakers, our pastors and their wives, that hospital
gave us a conference room to sit in and to wait. No one cried that much
yet. We thought it was just a bad scare, an attack of some kind. Then
they said it was a stroke. I didn't know this then, but my father stood
in the hallway and turned his head to the wall to sob because only he
knew what Mr. Glenn was feeling. Thirty-seven years ago, my mother
nearly died from a traumatic stroke, which would have left my father a
widower with two newborns. Now, my father was watching his friend hear
the same news. That headache that your wife was being such a good sport
about over Christmas? That was a blood vessel flooding her brain.

Our little crew followed the ambulance carrying Sonia into Jacksonville
to the neuro-trauma ward. We piled into our cars and kept up as best we
could, watching in horror every time the traffic didn't part and every
time the ambulance had to pause. How could everyone not know Sonia was
in that ambulance dying? How could they not let her through? We arrived
at the hospital full of hope, praying constantly.

Sonia was wheeled into surgery almost immediately. It looked promising.
It wasn't like she was the first person to ever have a massive brain
bleed. "Look at my mom," my family kept saying, "She survived it."
Sonia's husband started planning what he would do to take care of a
debilitated wife. Their house would need to be altered, especially the
master bedroom and the bathroom. They might have to get a caretaker.
Whatever needed to happen, they would make it work. That's what "till
death do you part" means.

Time dragged forward, and we went to the hospital every day. Sonia's
brain kept swelling. The doctors kept cracking her skull open and
stapling it back together. New Year's Day came and went and she never
opened her eyes. Sometimes, when I waited in her room by her bed,
Sonia's fiery, wheel-chair bound mother would roll in and loudly beg
her, command her, to open her eyes. She never did. I sat on the couch in
Sonia's room and on the floor in the waiting room with her daughters
every day. I folded to the ground when her youngest daughter collapsed,
sobbing, in my arms. Every night I touched her cold leg or hand and told
her I loved her, even if I didn't think she could hear. I didn't want to
miss what might be my last chance to tell her. Then my family and I
would drive home and go to sleep and wonder if we would get called to
the hospital for the last time in the night or early morning.

I've never understood waiting on the Lord as I did then. We waited like
waiters and waitresses, cooking, cleaning, serving, watching, and
waiting and waiting and waiting. We stayed active in service to God
while we waited for Him to reveal His plan. Sonia kept going in and out
of surgery; eventually her husband was just buying time, not wanting to
be the one to make the final call. Her chest rose and fell so evenly,
mechanically, as pumps forced air into her lungs. Tubes and cords spread
out around her, connecting her to the technology that kept her body
stable. We sang to her often. "Blessed be Your name on the road marked
with suffering, though there's pain in the offering, blessed be Your
name[^1]...O Father use my ransomed life, in any way You choose, and let
my song forever be, 'My only boast is You'[^2]...We will stand as
children of the promise, we will fix our eyes on You, our hope's reward,
'til the race is finished and the work is done, we'll walk by faith and
not by sight."[^3]

She loved to sing, and we loved to sing to her. Maybe she heard us and
maybe she didn't, but we reminded ourselves of the light of Christ as we
passed under every new wave, and the nurses, doctors, and other
sufferers on that floor heard our hope.

After thirteen days, on January 7<sup>th</sup>, 2020, the doctors finally
declared Sonia brain dead. No more surgeries, no more chances, no more
waiting. She was gone. We had gone home already, but the family texted
us, and we drove right back out. Her daughters were so calm, so
peaceful; Christ eased their hearts for the night with relief and
comfort. We wept, but we did not despair. There were no screams, no
guttural roars, like the ones we had heard from other strangers while we
waited in the trauma ward. Instead, we sang for an hour in the hospital
lobby. "In times of waiting, times of need, when I know loss, when I am
weak, I know His grace will renew these days. The LORD is my
salvation."[^4] We held each other and said, "I'll see you tomorrow."
Since Sonia was an organ donor, they would need to take her into the
operating room soon to harvest her organs before they deteriorated more.

Every nurse and some doctors on shift come out for an "honor walk" when
an organ donor leaves their hospital room for the last time. We walked
behind her bed and between the lines of sober healthcare workers to the
enormous elevators. Three nurses walked with us, one to push her bed,
one to roll her fluids bag, and one to keep the handheld pump going. The
nurses had to keep Sonia's body just active enough to preserve her
organs to try to save a few strangers in dire need. If you've ever seen
the wedding scene in *Fiddler on the Roof* or a funeral scene in many
period dramas, you might notice a similarity: the crowd of people
following the honored ones. We followed Sonia. For ourselves, we were
her funeral train. For her, we were her wedding party. We walked Sonia
to her Bridegroom.

The nurses stopped one last time outside the OR doors to let us say
goodbye. Sonia's daughters sang, "May the road rise up to meet you, may
the wind stay always at your back....and until we meet again...."[^5]
Sonia's son squeezed her hand. Her husband kissed her once. She looked
so little like herself with her hair shaved, her head covered in black
stitches and staples, her body chill and swollen. I wrote to a friend
about the moment, and it felt like I was describing a stranger. It was
like someone I never knew and never loved. That graying body in the bed
was not my Sonia. That was not the Sonia who hugged me like I was her
favorite niece and clapped embarrassingly loudly and never knew when to
stop talking. We cried. Of course, we cried. And then, in true fatherly
fashion, my dad made a joke and said we should go to breakfast. We were
alive; we were hungry. We went to breakfast.

I stayed at Sonia's house with her daughters a few different nights
between that day and the funeral, and one night we had a tea party. We
turned out all the lights, and we lit candles. There were those candles
again. Little lights in an inescapable darkness. There were two services
for Sonia, a graveside service and a memorial service, and then life
went on. My sister couldn't sing without crying. My mother wept every
day. I got behind in every class and broke down at TV scenes with
ventilators. I had flashbacks when I parked in a parking garage for the
first time after the hospital garage. Dr. Hake told me, "There are no
shortcuts in grief." We were walking the whole path, but we were walking
it together.

I think I can honestly say those were the worst weeks of my life. Death
has been a familiar part of my life since I was a child, but Sonia's
death shook our whole family and church to the core. And yet, I have
never seen Jesus in the way I saw Him during those weeks. The bond He
creates between His children cannot be broken. Jesus walked with us
through our loss even as He walked by Sonia's side in heaven. Our
eternal lives began the moment He saved us, and Sonia is living that
life to the fullest while we stay behind for a moment. For now, she is
further in and further up than we are allowed to go. But we are on the
same path. She has begun the first page of the first chapter of the
first book of the real story, and we are still in the prologue. We will
follow, and Christ will lead. With Sonia's death, the veil wore so thin
that I could almost see into the mystery. The light shone through just
enough. Sonia is with Christ and Christ is with us. He is the candle,
the lighthouse, the Light. He is the Light that shines through the veil
of death, blazing away its victory and burning away its sting, and no
wind or rain or wave will quench Him while we stay in this stormy
in-between.

[^1]: Matt Redman, "Blessed Be Your Name," by Beth Redman and Matt
    Redman, recorded 2002, Track 2 on *Where Angels Fear to Tread*, CMG,
    <https://open.spotify.com/track/6cuagVmvMJalnJwEEqpsju?si=49fb00f5c6584de4>.

[^2]: Jordan Kauflin, "All I Have is Christ," recorded 2008, Track 1 on
    *All I Have is Christ*, 2014, Integrity Music,
    <https://open.spotify.com/track/65kxdpXxTk6IpahSnJBiT1?si=641204fa5c054028>.

[^3]: Keith and Krysten Getty, "By Faith," by Keith Getty, Krysten
    Getty, and Stuart Townsend, recorded 2009, Track 5 on *Awaken the
    Dawn*, CMG,
    <https://open.spotify.com/track/3rYWHA6qsDCT6QPeQnrYcz?si=2e925b36717d4e81>.

[^4]: Keith and Kyrsten Getty, "The Lord is my Salvation," by Keith
    Getty, Krysten Getty, Jonas Myrin, and Nathan Nockels, recorded
    2016, Track 8 on *Facing a Task Unfinished (Deluxe Edition)*, CMG,
    <https://open.spotify.com/track/0lNRoHi9Y3mB3AklVWAtUf?si=6e0b5f3253444ce4>.

[^5]: Traditional Irish Blessing