---
title: "Rejoicing in God's Salvation & the Promised Savior: An Exegetical Study
of the Songs of Hannah and Mary"
name: Brynna
surname: Clendenen
authordescription: Brynna is a senior Classical Liberal Arts major from West Virginia.
tags: ["criticism"]
permalink: "/3/2/rejoicing-in-god-s-salvation/"
---

Throughout Scripture, people often respond to God's acts of deliverance
with songs. Jesus' mother Mary follows this ancient tradition with her
Magnificat in Luke 1:46--55. Her song of praise contains similar
structure and themes to several songs in the Old Testament. The most
similar of these Old Testament songs is the prayer of Hannah in 1 Samuel
2:1--10, which has often been called an earlier version of the
Magnificat. 1 Samuel 2:10 is also the first usage of the Hebrew word
"Messiah." Hannah's song comes before the Davidic covenant, while Mary's
song comes during the fulfillment of all Messianic longing. This paper
will compare in exegetical fashion the similarities and differences
between the songs of Hannah and Mary. Their similarities are in both
content and structure, and their differences are on what specific words
and phrases are used to praise the Savior. Both songs will be treated as
messianic, as both Hannah's prayer and Mary's Magnificat are songs of
praise to God for His covenantal faithfulness and for sending the
anointed King.

Hannah's song of praise comes after the birth of Samuel, the son for
which she had earnestly prayed.[^1] When Samuel was old enough, Hannah
and her husband brought him to Eli the priest for a life of service to
the Lord. It is then she sings her prayer. Though Hannah was a poor
farmer's wife, she must have known the existing Scriptures well enough
to compose such a poetic prayer. For example, many of her expressions
are also found in the song of Moses in Exodus 15:1--18.[^2] Hannah's
song is often classified as a Psalm of Thanksgiving, as many such Psalms
contain similar phrases and parallelisms.[^3] This is also a prayer
which speaks of God's righteous judgement and a coming King, who is here
first called the Lord's "Anointed," or Messiah.[^4] Similar language is
used in the Psalms regarding the Messiah's kingship, and it is surmised
that these psalms used Hannah's song to inform their messianic
theology.[^5] Hannah's son Samuel would anoint David as King over
Israel, instituting the royal house from which would come the Messiah.
Thus, in her song, Hannah looks forward in the Holy Spirit to the
kingship of both David and the Messiah.

Mary's song, on the other hand, comes while she is pregnant with Jesus.
The Angel Gabriel, one who stands in the presence of God,[^6] had
announced to her that she would be the mother of the Messiah. In their
conversation, Gabriel had told Mary that her barren relative Elizabeth
was also pregnant. After Mary's submissive response to the Lord's will,
she went to visit Elizabeth. It is during this visit that Mary prays her
song, the Magnificat. This song takes its name from its opening line in
the Vulgate, "Magnificat anima mea Dominum."[^7] Like Hannah's song, the
Magnificat is classified as a song of thanksgiving.[^8] This song echoes
themes from several Old Testament songs of thanksgiving and deliverance,
but Hannah's song remains its closest parallel, as well as its possible
prototype.[^9] Like Hannah, Mary was a poor Israelite woman immersed in
the existing Scriptures. Thus, she composed her own song of thanksgiving
using themes found in the songs she knew.[^10] However, unlike Hannah
and all other Old Testament saints, Mary knew and saw the Messiah
Himself. She sang to God during her pregnancy to praise Him for the
miracle taking place in her womb and her world. Thus, her song praises
God for His covenantal faithfulness and the coming of the Anointed King
mentioned in Hannah's song.

These two songs are examples of progressive revelation throughout
history. Hannah's song continues the themes of the protoevangelium
(Genesis 3:15), the Judaic prediction (Genesis 49:8--12), the Mosaic
prediction (Deut. 18:15--19), and looks to the anointing of the King.
Mary's song takes all messianic longing and prophecy in the Old
Testament and looks toward current fulfillment. Additionally, both songs
are very similar in content and structure. Both employ the types of
parallelism common in Hebrew poetry to communicate praise to God. Both
also can be divided into six sections, alternating praise of God's
sovereignty with amazement at the reversal of human fortunes.[^11]
Moreover, both songs end with an emphasis on God's covenantal
faithfulness: Hannah, looking forward to the Messiah, and Mary, looking
backward to Abraham.[^12]

The beginning of each song declares the worshipful intent of the
speaker. Hannah says, "My heart rejoices in the Lord."[^13] Using God's
covenantal name, Yahweh (בַּֽיהוָ֔ה), she goes on to express her joy and
delight in His deliverance. In Him, her horn is lifted high. Hannah's
"horn" symbolizes her dignity, whereas the horn of Yahweh's Anointed in
verse 10 symbolizes kingship. [^14] Because of Yahweh's saving nature,
Hannah can rejoice over her enemies with dignity and joy. She also
praises Yahweh's holiness with several parallelisms, saying there is no
Rock like Him.[^15] Moreover, the word "Rock" is later given messianic
significance in Psalm 118:22 and Isaiah 8:14; 28:16.[^16] Though "Rock"
dis not yet carry that connotation at this time in redemptive history,
it is noteworthy that it had been applied to Yahweh long before being
applied to the Messiah. Thus, because of who God is and what He has
done, Hannah implores others to put away arrogance in the face of God's
omnipotence.[^17]

"My soul magnifies the Lord," Mary says.[^18] Rejoicing in God's
salvation is central to both songs. Hannah delights in the Lord's
deliverance, while Mary rejoices in God her Savior with her soul (ψυχή)
and spirt (πνεῦμά). These Greek words do have distinct meanings, for
ψυχή refers to the physical breath of life, while πνεῦμά refers to
spiritual beings.[^19] The use of words with similar meaning in two
successive lines, however, is an example of synonymous parallelism
common in Hebrew poetry.[^20] Thus, the Magnificat is praise from Mary's
whole being, both physical and spiritual. Moreover, the word "Savior"
(σωτήρ) occurs in the Gospel of Luke only two times, both in the first
two chapters. The first occurrence is in the Magnificat referring to
God, while the second is in the angel song to the shepherds referring to
Jesus.[^21] Though much shorter than the opening of Hannah's song,
Mary's declaration of praise to her Savior is from her heart.

Hannah's song next dwells on the reversal of human fortunes. 1 Samuel
2:4 dwells on the reversal of fortunes in battle. Since this song
describes God as a Mighty Warrior and Savior, it is fitting to describe
how He governs human battles. The mighty have their weapons taken from
them, while the weak are clothed in strength.[^22] It is God in His
sovereignty who governs the affairs of mankind, and Hannah has seen this
in her own life. Hence, she then moves on to sing of how God fills the
hungry and restores the barren woman to be the mother of "seven
children."[^23] While some commentators point to this phrase as evidence
that this song was not composed by Hannah herself,[^24] others point out
the importance of the number "seven" denoting fulness and completeness.
Thus, the seven children of the barren woman in 1 Samuel 2:4 may be seen
as a poetic idiom for perfection. Since Hannah had been blessed with
children after a long period of infertility, it makes sense that her
song would poetically describe the perfection of the Lord's blessing in
this way.[^25]

Like Hannah, Mary also dwells on how God has specifically blessed her.
In Luke 1:48, Mary is amazed and thankful that God has looked on her
"humble estate," and calling herself the "Lord's servant" in her
conversation with Gabriel.[^26] Her song uses parallel structures that
contrast her lowliness with God's greatness. Moreover, while such
lowliness was used in the Old Testament to refer to a woman's
barrenness, this cannot be the case with Mary, who is a virgin.[^27]
Though both women are poor peasants of Israel's oppressed generations,
Mary's lowliness takes a different form than Hannah's. Hers is of the
poorest of the poor. She is from Nazareth.[^28] God delights in the poor
and lowly, however, and He chose Mary to be the mother of the Messiah.
Her statement "from now on all generations will call me blessed" came to
fruition as soon as she met Elizabeth,[^29] and even in Protestant
churches today Mary is still looked to as an example of godly womanhood.
This section ends with Mary praising God, "He who is Mighty," for the
great things He has done for her. The image of God shifts from
delivering Savior to a Mighty Warrior who fights for His people.[^30]
Like Hannah, Mary praises God for His might and holiness. Again, the
theme of rejoicing in God as Savior is key to both songs.

1 Samuel 2:6--7 returns to the theme of God's sovereignty. He is the One
who governs death, life, poverty, and wealth. In a few short
parallelisms,[^31] Hannah recognizes that any blessing she experiences
can only be from the hand of the Lord. Thus, she here affirms His
sovereign rule over all human life, wealth, and pride. The emphasis of
God's power over the grave[^32] itself is highlighted throughout the Old
Testament.[^33] This is Yahweh's total authority over life and death.
Moreover, the Lord governs what goes on during human lifetimes, between
life and death. He is the one who controls all human status, both
material and social.[^34]

Mary also returns to dwell on the sovereignty of God in all He does for
His people. Though the Magnificat is in the first person, Mary
nonetheless speaks for all Israel throughout her song.[^35] From Luke
1:49b onward, God is the subject of every verb in the Magnificat. The
Lord is the One who has done all these things for His people, granting
His mercy to "those who fear Him."[^36] One commentator points out that
to speak of God's mercy immediately brings into mind the corporate
people of God, for it is only by His mercy that He chose them for His
own. Moreover, it is only by His mercy that humanity was created imago
Dei for the express purpose of relationship with God.[^37] In calling
attention to God's holiness and mercy, Mary worships the Lord by
reminding herself and Israel that He is the One who called them, despite
their constant failures. The phrase "He has shown strength with His
arm"[^38] is an expression often used in the Old Testament, most notably
when describing God's acts of creation and the Exodus.[^39] Thus, this
section of the Magnificat further magnifies the Lord by considering how
He has shown His faithfulness to Israel.

Both songs now turn again to dwell on God's hand in reversing human
fortunes to the most unexpected outcomes. 1 Samuel 2:8a describes God's
care for the poor. It is He who lifts them up and gives them great
blessing. The poor and needy are raised from the dust and the ash heap
to sit in thrones of honor with princes. Mary expresses this same
sentiment using very similar language. God has brought down the mighty
from their thrones and exalted the lowly.[^40] These mighty ones mock
God with their pride, and He brings them down from their high positions.
Thus, by God's great kindness and might, poor people like Hannah and
Mary are lifted from their lowly positions to honorable ones.

1 Samuel 2:8b--10a returns to the theme of God's holy sovereignty for
the third time. Hannah dwells on His sovereignty as the Creator of all
things, speaking of how the world is set upon the foundations He has
made.[^41] This specific phrasing is found elsewhere in the Psalms and
the book of Job.[^42] Hannah's meditation on the Lord's sovereign works
of the past aids her praise for His work in the present and future. As
well as upholding the foundations of the physical world, God also gives
moral and spiritual protection to His people. 1 Samuel 2:9 says that He
will guard the feet of the faithful, while the wicked will be "silenced
in darkness." This darkness is the deep gloom engulfing the wicked, both
in life and death.[^43] Moreover, as both Hannah and Mary have
reiterated in their songs, those prideful in their own strength will be
disappointed. The Lord's response is to shatter them, thunder from
heaven, and judge them according to their wicked pride.[^44] The
metaphor of thunder is often used in the Old Testament in the context of
battle and destruction.[^45] As the Creator, Yahweh is sovereign over
all nature and humanity. Thus, His wrath against all wickedness is just,
for He is the holy Creator. It is Yahweh who acts in the world, for He
made it. He is the God who sees both the rich and poor, the wicked and
faithful. Those who oppose Yahweh, making themselves His enemies, will
face His wrath.

Mary's song dwells less on the destruction of the wicked and more on
God's continual care for His people. Here in Luke 1:53, the wealthy are
turned away that He might favor the poor. Indeed, one of the
Magnificat's major themes is how God favors the weak over the strong,
the oppressed over the mighty, and the hungry over the rich. Like
Hannah's song, God's sovereignty is central, as well as the reversal of
human fortunes to favor the lowly. Though expressed in different lengths
and poetic devices, the two songs contain such similarities that they
must be connected. However, their connection goes much deeper than mere
similarity in structure or specific parallelisms.

Both Hannah's prayer and Mary's Magnificat speak of the Messiah. This
similarity stands far above their similar structure and content.[^46]
Moreover, all the things described in these songs regarding God's
sovereignty and the exaltation of the humble are given much attention by
Jesus---the Messiah Himself. Thus, even the verses where the Messiah is
not specifically mentioned may be seen as being indirectly messianic.

1 Samuel 2:10b is the first instance of the specific Hebrew word
"Messiah" (מְשִׁיחֽוֹ), meaning "Anointed One." These ending lines of
Hannah's song say:

> He will give strength to his king
>
> and exalt the horn of his anointed.[^47]

While a form of this word does occur earlier in the Old Testament, it is
only applied to the anointing of Levitical priests for service in the
Tabernacle.[^48] Until Hannah's song, this word had not yet been applied
to the coming Deliverer who would crush the Serpent's head.[^49]
Moreover, 1 Samuel is the first of several books dealing with Israel's
kings, and the term "Messiah" is used later on for those anointed by God
through prophets to rule Israel.[^50] Thus, Hannah's song ends with the
theme of kingship and the exaltation of an Anointed King to come. This
is expressed in another parallelism, connecting the king to the
"Anointed." While this is also a foreshadowing of the Davidic covenant,
the Davidic covenant itself is messianic. Thus, later Psalms which
meditate on the triumph of God's Anointed King over all the earth may
have been inspired by this first expression of messianic kingship in
Hannah's song.[^51]

The final section of Mary's Magnificat is also profoundly messianic.
Unnlike Hannah, however, Mary was living in the days of messianic
fulfillment. She was carrying the Anointed One---named by Hannah---in
her womb. The last lines of the Magnificat say:

> He has helped his servant Israel,\
> in remembrance of his mercy,\
> as he spoke to our fathers,\
> to Abraham and to his offspring forever.[^52]

Here, Mary remembers God's covenantal faithfulness to His people. She
began her song with declaring that her whole being rejoices in God her
Savior, and she ends with a remembrance of the Lord's covenantal mercy
as spoken to the patriarchs and their descendants. It is clear from the
outset of the Magnificat that Mary gives praise to God because He is
sending the promised Deliverer to His people.[^53] However, the word
"Messiah" is seen nowhere in Luke 1:46--55. Thus, He must be mentioned
under another name. The reference to Abraham is the key to unraveling
this puzzle, as the Abrahamic covenant was also given with messianic
meaning and purpose. Thus, while Hannah foretells the Davidic covenant,
Mary looks all the way back to the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis
12:1--3. The promise of the Messiah is now being granted through Mary's
physical body to the descendants of Abraham.

Who are the offspring of Abraham? The Greek word used here is the dative
form of the word for "seed" (σπέρμα). The word "seed" immediately
recalls Genesis 3:15, where the promised Deliverer is called "the Seed
of the woman." Moreover, the Apostle Paul makes a key connection in his
letter to the Galatians:

> For the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does
> not say, "And to offsprings," referring to many, but referring to one,
> "And to your offspring," who is Christ...God gave it to Abraham by a
> promise.[^54]

According to Paul, the "seed of Abraham" is the Messiah. This is an
example of corporate solidarity, where an individual representing a
given group and the group represented have equal parts of the same
prophetic meaning.[^55] Thus, all the promises of the Abrahamic covenant
are fulfilled with the coming of the Messiah. God will never forget His
mercy to the people He makes His own, and He has provided a Savior to
take away their sins.

Both Hannah's prayer and Mary's Magnificat portray God as Savior, the
Mighty Warrior who delivers His people. God blessed both of these women
greatly by giving them sons who gave hope to Israel. Hannah's son Samuel
anointed the kings of Israel and served the Lord as a prophet for many
years. Mary's son Jesus was the Anointed King to which all other kings
pointed. Through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the theme of the
Anointed One is key in the songs of Hannah and Mary. The Messiah would
be a King coming to deliver His people from their enemies. He would come
to lift up the poor and lowly, bringing down those who trust in
themselves. Moreover, He would come as the fulfillment of all covenants
given to Israel from Abraham forward. The coming of Jesus is the climax
of redemptive history, and it is the reason for which all God's people
can say with Hannah and Mary, "My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit
rejoices in God my Savior...for I delight in your deliverance."[^56]

## Bibliography

 \"ψυχή,\" \"πνεῦμά.\" *A Lexicon: Abridged from Liddell and Scott's
Greek-English Lexicon.* Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1891, 566-567,
798.

Edwards, James R. *The Gospel According to Luke*. Grand Rapids: Wm. B.
Eerdmans Publishing Co., 2015.

Green, Joel B. *The Gospel of Luke*. Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans
Publishing Co., 1997.

Kaiser, Walter C. Jr. *The Messiah in the Old Testament*. Grand Rapids:
Zondervan Publishing House, 1995.

Klein, Ralph W. *10 Word Biblical Commentary: 1 Samuel*, 2^nd^ ed. Grand
Rapids: Zondervan, 2000.

Tsumura, David Toshio. *The First Book of Samuel*. Grand Rapids: Wm. B.
Eerdmans Publishing Co., 2007.

[^1]: 1 Samuel 1:11.

[^2]: Walter C. Kaiser, Jr., *The Messiah in The Old Testament* (Grand
    Rapids: Zondervan Publishing House, 1995), 67-68.

[^3]: Ralph W. Klein, *10 Word Biblical Commentary: 1 Samuel* (Grand
    Rapids: Zondervan, 2000), 14-15.

[^4]: Kaiser, 69; David Toshio Tsumura, *The First Book of Samuel
    (*Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co., 2007), 150.

[^5]: Kaiser, 69.

[^6]: Luke 1:19.

[^7]: James R. Edwards, *The Gospel According to Luke* (Grand Rapids:
    Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co., 2015), 54.

[^8]: Edwards, 54.

[^9]: Joel B. Green, *The Gospel of Luke* (Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans
    Publishing Co., 1997), 101; Edwards, 54; Tsumura, 135.

[^10]: Edwards, 54.

[^11]: Tsumura, 141; Green, 99. I have applied Tsumura's analysis of
    Hannah's song to Mary's song as well, given the information in
    Green's analysis.

[^12]: 1 Samuel 2:10; Luke 1:55.

[^13]: 1 Samuel 2:1, NIV (1984).

[^14]: Tsumura, 141-142.

[^15]: 1 Samuel 2:2.

[^16]: Tsumura, 143.

[^17]: 1 Samuel 2:3.

[^18]: Luke 1:46b, ESV.

[^19]:  \"ψυχή,\" \"πνεῦμά,\" *A Lexicon: Abridged from Liddell and
    Scott's Greek-English Lexicon (*Oxford: Oxford University Press,
    1891), 566-567, 798.

[^20]: Edwards, 55.

[^21]: Edwards, 55.

[^22]: Paraphrase of 1 Samuel 2:4, NIV (1984).

[^23]: 1 Samuel 2:5b.

[^24]: Klein, 14. This commentator points out that Hannah only bore six
    children (Samuel and five more), and thus "she who was barren who
    has borne seven children" cannot be Hannah.

[^25]: Tsumura, 145.

[^26]: Luke 1:38, 1:48a.

[^27]: Green, 103.

[^28]: Nathanael's scoffing remark in John 1:46 ("Can anything good come
    out of Nazareth?") tells the reader of the Gospels that Nazareth was
    an unrefined village of deep poverty.

[^29]: Luke 1:41-45 contains Elizabeth's greeting of blessing to the
    mother of her Lord.

[^30]: Green, 103.

[^31]: Or "merismatic pairs," emphasizing the contrasting nature of life
    and death, wealth and poverty, and pride and humility.

[^32]: Or "Sheol," the realm of the dead (Tsumura, 146).

[^33]: See Deuteronomy 32:39b, Psalm 30:4, and other passages (Tsumura,
    146-147).

[^34]: Tsumura, 147.

[^35]: Green, 103.

[^36]: Luke 1:50, ESV.

[^37]: Green, 103-104.

[^38]: Luke 1:51a, ESV.

[^39]: Green, 104.

[^40]: Luke 1:52.

[^41]: 1 Samuel 2:8b.

[^42]: Klein, 18.

[^43]: Tsumura, 148.

[^44]: 1 Samuel 2:9b-10a.

[^45]: Tsumura, 148.

[^46]: This exegesis of these passages has been meant to be extensive,
    though not exhaustive. Much more can be said, for example, on the
    specific parallelisms or simple phrases that show up in both 1
    Samuel 2:1-10 and Luke 1:46-55. A few of these are: the contrasts
    between the poor and mighty, the hungry and rich, the weak and
    strong, and the faithful and the wicked.

[^47]: 1 Samuel 2:10b, NIV (1984).

[^48]: Leviticus 4:3, 5, 16; 6:22.

[^49]: See Genesis 3:15 for the protoevangelium.

[^50]: It is noteworthy to mention that Hannah's son (the initial reason
    for her song of praise) was Samuel, the prophet who anointed both
    King Saul and King David. In 2 Samuel 7, it would be revealed by the
    prophet Nathan to David that his royal line would be the family of
    the Deliverer and Messiah still to come. Thus, the mother of Samuel,
    who would anoint King David, through whom would come Jesus of
    Nazareth, was the first to apply the term "Messiah" to the coming
    Deliverer.

[^51]: Walter C. Jr. Kaiser, *The Messiah in the Old Testament* (Grand
    Rapids: Zondervan Publishing House, 1995), 69.

[^52]: Luke 1:54-55, ESV.

[^53]: The language used by Gabriel to describe Mary's son is very
    similar to the Davidic covenant given in 2 Samuel 7. Thus, Mary
    knew, as a good Jewish girl, that if her child was to be "the Son of
    God" and will have "the throne of His father David," then He was the
    Messiah promised from the beginning of man's Fall.

[^54]: Galatians 3:16-18, ESV.

[^55]: Kaiser, 13-35.

[^56]: Luke 1:46-47, ESV; 1 Samuel 2:1b, NIV (1984).
