---
name: Kaitlyn
surname: Tully
title: "Letter from the Editor"
authordescription: 
tags: ["letter"]
permalink: "/4/4/from-the-editor/"
---
Dear Reader,

This is the last issue of *Westmarch* I will ever edit. I have been on
staff for three years, and it has been incredible to watch this journal
grow and change over the years. I am so proud of everyone who has worked
so hard to make this journal what it is. You are all amazing.

I shall forgo the usual discussion of the content of this issue for the
sake of individual thank yous. First of all, Dr. Grewell, thank you so
much for your vision and guidance on this journal. We could not have
done this without you. I am so excited to see what happens as
*Westmarch* becomes a part of the English major curriculum.

Abbie, thank you for your leadership. You make a wonderful unofficial
right-hand man. Truly, you have been invaluable these past two years. I
know you are going to make *Westmarch* absolutely incredible next year.
Grace, thank you for your kindness and your uncanny ability to get
random things done. You bring joy into every room you walk into, and you
made *Westmarch* meetings a much better place. Your in with the library
staff is also, as always, quite helpful. Julia, your creativity and
inspiration has made this journal so much better. Thank you for sharing
your skills with us and always bringing new ideas, and for bringing even
more beauty to *Westmarch*. Faith, thank you for your knowledge and your
willingness to jump right in. You taught us all so much about editing
and publications, despite this being your first year on the journal. I
am so glad you joined. Bethany, thank you for being steadfast and ready
to learn. I appreciate your ability to take on random tasks and figure
things out. Micah, you are so diligent and willing to go along with
whatever we throw at you. Thank you for managing the website and always
bringing us new ideas. Thank you especially for caring so much.

Reader, I hope you enjoy this little Transcendentalist escape in nature
as much as I do, and I hope you take the inspiration to go outside and
enjoy the beautiful spring air.

Sincerely,\
Kaitlyn Tully\
Editor-in-Chief