---
name: Lauren
surname: Mock
title: "Heaven on Earth: Emily Dickinson's Sense of Home in Love and Nature"
authordescription: "Lauren is a junior English major at Messiah University."
tags: ["fiction"]
permalink: "/4/4/heaven-on-earth/"
---

Where is "home" to Emily Dickinson? Literally speaking, her home was in
Amherst, Massachusetts. In a less literal sense, many would argue that
she made her home in her own mind. Still others argue that she only
viewed the Christian concept of heaven as her home. However, her poetry
and letters suggest that heaven was something she could never quite
grasp in its entirety or be content with as her final destination.
Though Dickinson certainly ponders questions of religion, God, and
heaven, she has difficulty with the tension that occurs when these
ponderings are placed next to the things she seems to value most: what
she can physically experience and appreciate on earth. Scholar Neil
Scheurich explains that the spirituality displayed by Dickinson "is not
simple atheism because of its never-satisfied quest for transcendence of
some kind" (194). In explorations of her poems and letters, a search for
the transcendence mentioned here is evident. Dickinson commonly
references heaven and religious themes, but she does this in her own
unique manner which deviates from a common understanding of religious
transcendence. She often places these concepts alongside mentions of
nature or personal relationships, hinting at the idea that she
ultimately relies on physical realities to find meaning. As much as she
questions the complexities of transcendence, I argue that her quest for
transcendence ultimately serves to bring her back to the belonging and
sense of home she finds in what her purely human experiences allow her
to tangibly and unquestionably depend on. Primarily, she grounds herself
through her profound intimate relationships with other human beings and
her deep connection with nature.

In order to understand how Dickinson pushes back against the traditional
concept of transcendence and finds meaning in her own way, it is helpful
to examine her early responses to the religious pressures of her time.
Scholar Joan Burbick highlights Dickinson's mindset in her young adult
years by referencing letters to her childhood friend Abiah Root. In her
letters, Dickinson exhibits a great inner conflict that keeps her from
fully and officially converting to Christianity, though friends and
school mentors encourage her to do so. Burbick illustrates how a great
source of this conflict comes from the idea that if Dickinson were not
to convert, she would be eternally separated from those with whom she
forms close attachments. On the other hand, "if she converts, then
Dickinson and her friend will remain 'one unbroken company in heaven,'"
as Dickinson herself articulates in one of her letters (66). The fear of
losing her earthly attachments seems to be her most motivating reason to
convert. Instead of fixating on fears of being condemned to hell or not
pleasing God enough to enter the gates of heaven, her primary concern
lies in the idea of being permanently separated from those she holds
dear on earth. This fear of hers, which manifests itself early in her
adult years, prefigures the way that she would approach the tension
between metaphysical questions she has and her cherished earthly
experiences for the vast majority of her life.

Burbick touches on the idea that nothing heaven may have to offer
Dickinson can surpass what her experiences on earth can provide, and
this is reinforced in her poetry. Burbick says that, "only duplication
of the earthly in heaven...would appease the fear of eternal separation"
for Dickinson (74). There are many poems by Dickinson that support this
assumption by elevating the earthly to a standing that seems divine or
praiseworthy in nature. Dickinson's poem, "Because that you are going"
is one such example. In this poem, the speaker admits that, "The "Life
that is to be" to me / A Residence too plain / Unless in my Redeemer's
Face / I recognize your own --" (ll. 21-24). The subject of the
poem---the unnamed "you"---is of so much value to the speaker that the
speaker will not be content in the "Life that is to be" ---seemingly,
heaven---unless the "Redeemer" that waits for her there is the very
subject addressed, the one who is the object of the affections expressed
in the poem. The speaker's earthly attachment to this person is so
strong that she cannot imagine an afterlife that will satisfy her if it
does not provide a replication of their relationship with this person.
It is worth focusing on the word choice of "Redeemer" here, because it
suggests that the subject of the poem is not only someone who the
speaker loves; the word's associated connotation of divinity reveals
that the subject is someone who the speaker praises. The speaker does
not say that she would be satisfied if the "Life that is to be" allows
her to enjoy the company of her loved one. Instead, the speaker seems to
be saying that she will only be content if her "Redeemer" is her loved
one, rather than Jesus Christ. The subject appears to be the object of
the speaker's worship, and anything less than that will not suffice.

Dickinson's letters and poems to her sister-in-law Susan reveal
Dickinson's proclivity to prioritize earthly bonds over anything else
that the promises of religion have to offer. The speaker of one of
Dickinson's poems says, "To own a Susan of my own / Is of itself a Bliss
-- / Whatever Realm I forfeit, Lord, / Continue me in this!" (ll. 1-4).
This is one of Dickinson's rarer poems, in which the subject is
explicitly named. The speaker of this poem is desperate to retain her
earthly ties with Susan even after "whatever realm \[she\]
forfeit\[s\]," even after death. Her only supplication to a higher power
is once again based on the fear of losing her earthly attachments,
rather than more pious grievances like asking for forgiveness so that
she would be saved or requesting a place for her in the afterlife. She
gives the indication that she is not overly concerned with where her
soul ends up---as long as she is with Sue. Scholar Jean McClure Mudge
explains it best when she says, "God receives Emily's unaccustomed
praise for Sue alone. And heaven is where Sue is" (93). Taking a look at
Dickinson's letters to Susan, this is even more discernible. In an 1852
letter to Sue, Dickinson says "the people who love God" are attending
church, then encourages Sue not to join them and to instead, "come with
me this morning to the church within our hearts." Going along with the
same theme of rebelling against traditional church practices, Dickinson
writes in another 1852 letter to Sue: "Oh Susie, what need I more, to
make my heaven whole? ... the worthy pastor; when he said 'Our Heavenly
Father,' I said 'Oh Darling Sue.'" Dickinson also includes an anecdote
about how she created her own lyrics to the hymns they were singing
about how much she loved Sue, "while all the rest of the choir were
singing Hallelujahs." Here, again, Dickinson shows her way of giving
praise to her earthly relationships that she relies wholly on rather
than a metaphysical being she can only imagine to exist.

Susan was not the only one whose company Dickinson equates to being of a
spiritual nature. Dickinson expresses similar sentiments later in life
to her love interest Otis Phillips Lord. In an 1882 letter, she tells
him, "While others go to Church, I go to mine, for are not you my
Church, and have we not a Hymn that no one knows but us?" The way this
so closely mirrors the way Dickinson spoke to Sue 30 years earlier is
worth noting. Even considering the mass amounts of poems she produces in
between which ponder ideas such as heaven, God, death, and eternity, she
is near the end of her life and still places her faith in her earthly
relationships rather than in a religious belief system. As scholar
Burbick rightly states, "Dickinson placed her trust in the bonds of
friendship on earth...Earthly love was interchangeable with transcendent
love" (72, 73). Dickinson seemingly had no need for a connection with a
higher being; she found complete fulfillment in her real, tangible
bonds.

While Dickinson's poems give insight to her views on the afterlife and
her hesitancy to embrace the idea of it, some scholars still argue that
the idea of a Christian heaven is what she puts her hope in. Scholar
Levi Barton St. Armand creates a picture of Emily Dickinson that depicts
her as someone who fully "became the bride or betrothed of Christ,"
which "both confirm\[ed\] and marr\[ied\] her in a love incapable of
earthly fulfillment" (73). If this were the case, however, Dickinson
would not have produced so many poems comparing the heaven of Christian
standards to her unique heaven she experiences on earth, with the latter
being portrayed as the superior of the two. In her poem "Going to
Heaven!," the speaker asserts that she does not believe in heaven, and
is even grateful that she does not. The speaker says, "I'm glad I don't
believe it / For it w'd stop my breath / And I'd like to look a little
more / At such a curious Earth!" (ll. 20-23). The "it" in question being
heaven, the speaker muses on what it would be like to believe in heaven
and ultimately be sent there. She concludes that if heaven was revealed
to her as real, she would want to spend more time appreciating the earth
before going there. This does not appear to be the voice of a woman
whose "deepest truths of her soul" are comparable to that of "a 'New
England Nun'" (St. Armand). If Dickinson were truly and fully invested
in a heavenly afterlife and placed her hope in this alone, her poems
would not center on her exaltation of the treasures of the earth. It is
undeniable that Dickinson deeply valued what the earth could give her,
writing in an 1846 letter to Abiah Root: "I feel that the world holds a
predominant place in my affections. I do not feel that I could give up
all for Christ, were I called to die."

St. Armand argues that to cope with the sorrows which Dickinson's life
brought upon her, she fixed her focus on the heaven that was to come,
though her poetry implies the very opposite: that she preferred her
earthly heaven over the prospect of a future one. St. Armand maintains
that "Dickinson resolved her dilemma... by viewing her lot from the
perspective of the personal heaven to come, rather than the private hell
that was and had to be as she lived" (74). This argument makes two
assumptions that are directly at odds with Dickinson's poetry: it
assumes that she preferred to fix her thoughts on an imagined life that
was yet-to-be and contends that life on earth was, for Dickinson, a
"private hell." Dickinson gives some insight into a question she poses
regarding, "Which is best? Heaven -- / Or only Heaven to come" (ll.
1-2). From the first two lines of this poem, the speaker claims that
there are two forms of heaven to be experienced. One is a heaven of the
present, which can be tangibly experienced on earth, and the other is
one which can only be imagined as coming in the future. The speaker,
later in the poem, says, "I cannot help esteem // The "Bird within the
Hand" / Superior to the one / The "Bush" may yield me / Or may not" (ll.
4-8). The bird, in this analogy, represents the two distinct forms of
heaven earlier mentioned. The speaker ultimately claims preference for
the bird that exists right in front of her eyes, the one which she is
certain of because it exists "within the Hand." This bird is preferred
to the bird that "the 'Bush' may yield." The following line, "or may
not," is perhaps the most telling as to why the speaker prefers the
first bird. The speaker does not want to put her faith in something that
can fail to fulfill its promises. Though the bush *may* yield the bird,
the speaker cannot be certain, because it is only imagined. Scholar
Saori Onodera agrees with this sentiment that Dickinson preferred what
she could be sure of, stating that "she could not give up her present
world for an eternal heaven, which was unknown and uncertain to
her...she prefers heaven in her familiar home to a remote foreign heaven
in the sky" (21, 23). This claim further supports the idea that while
Dickinson did not hesitate to consider ideas related to heaven and
Christian teachings, she ultimately rested on putting her faith in the
physical realities that her human experiences presented her.

Additionally, Dickinson's poems suggest that although her life included
its fair share of struggles and grief, she was far from living in what
she would consider a "private hell." Rather, she was enamored with the
idea of being alive, and appreciated everything life had to offer her.
This is evident in her poems dedicated to the beauty of nature. As
scholar Janet Buell asserts, "throughout her life Emily Dickinson
continued to find her strongest reassurance in the workings of nature"
(20). Several of her poems support this claim, one of them being her
well-known poem, "Some -- keep the Sabbath." In this poem, the speaker
says that she keeps the Sabbath "staying at Home -- / With a Bobolink --
for a Chorister -- / And an orchard -- for a Dome --" (ll. 2-4). The
speaker substitutes common elements of a traditional church service, a
chorister and a dome, with her own sacred elements of nature. A singing
bird and an orchard comprise her home-church because nature is where she
finds meaning. This is the speaker's unique way of practicing
faith---her physical home and the nature she can observe there is her
church. The last two lines tie in the idea of heaven, as the speaker
states, "So -- instead of getting to Heaven -- at last -- / I'm -- going
-- all along!" (ll. 11-12). Rather than striving to reach heaven by
attending church, she is already experiencing it in the here and now
within the comfort of nature. Here, we again see Dickinson elevating
tangible, physical experiences over metaphysical ones. As Buell states,
"she rejected blind faith; she needed evidence. Her reverence for
nature, her sense of dwelling within a terrestrial Eden, provided no
guarantees of an afterlife" (328). In other words, the nature which she
considered to be her own church, in which she practiced a unique form of
spirituality, did not cause her to want for anything else. This nature
she held so close to her heart did not appear to lead her to a higher
Christian calling, so she had no reason to place her hope in something
else that did not provide her the certainty that the earth around her
could provide.

Interestingly, Dickinson defined several of her own poems as hymns,
which may also help us understand how she viewed dwelling in nature as a
spiritual experience. According to scholar Christian Phillips, the poems
she defined as hymns tended to focus on secular subjects, like "a
hummingbird, the seasons, patriotism" (219). Phillips says that
Dickinson defined poems as hymns "when her work was under threat of
being cut short or misunderstood" (219). However, we could also view her
usage of the term "hymn" to be due to the fact that the so-called
"secular" subjects she was writing about were deeply spiritual to her.
One example of a "secular" subject which she exalts to the point of
having sacred meaning is found in the poem "'Heaven' -- is what I cannot
reach!," in which the speaker illuminates the beauty of a colored sky.
The speaker shares, "The Color, on the cruising cloud -- /.../ There --
Paradise -- is found!" (ll. 5, 8). After initially stating in the first
line that heaven is something unattainable to the speaker, she goes on
to say that heaven lies in what she experiences and observes from the
ground: a sky colored with "teazing Purples" ( l. 9).

When we culminate Dickinson's writings on her close relationships with
others and her love of nature, as well as the way she ascribes sacred
meaning to these things, we find where Dickinson is most at home. Though
she muses on abstract concepts and spends a substantial amount of time
thinking about metaphysical matters, her mind and body do not find rest
there. They rest and are at peace amidst her physical, lived experiences
with loved ones and nature. In her poem, "I learned -- at least -- what
Home could be --," the speaker lists the things that she associates with
being at home. Among the things mentioned are gatherings "Round our new
fireside," "Mornings in our Garden," and "Afternoons -- together spent"
(ll.5, 9, 18). The speaker then describes the company of an unnamed
"you" to be "A new -- diviner -- Care --" (l. 24). Two things prevail in
all these examples listed: company with close friends and an
appreciation for what the natural world provides her. In this poem,
where Dickinson seems to define what she would call a home, there is no
mention of abstract religious concepts or a church community. Rather,
she relies on the things she can see and feel and presently experience
to conclude that "This seems a Home --" (l. 27).

Dickinson's poetry, as well as the wealth of remaining letters we have,
suggest that her only certainty was that she could not be truly certain
about abstract concepts, such as religion. While she may have dedicated
a great deal of time to pondering these subjects, and "dwelled in
possibility" to an extent, she ultimately made her home in the few
things she knew she could be certain of---those being the profound
intimate relationships she formed with other humans and her deep
appreciation for the tangible world around her. In another 1882 letter
to Otis Phillips Lord, Dickinson admits that "we both believe, and
disbelieve a hundred times an Hour." However, one thing that Dickinson
unflinchingly believed in, though, was the sacredness and authenticity
of earthly love and nature.

## Works Cited

- Buell, Janet W. "'A Slow Solace': Emily Dickinson and Consolation." *The
New England Quarterly*, vol. 62, no. 3, 1989, pp. 323--45. *JSTOR*,
https://doi.org/10.2307/365778. Accessed 11 Dec. 2023.

- Burbick, Joan. "'One Unbroken Company': Religion and Emily Dickinson."
*The New England Quarterly*, vol. 53, no. 1, 1980, pp. 62--75. *JSTOR*,
https://doi.org/10.2307/365289. Accessed 11 Dec. 2023.

- Dickinson, Emily. *Emily Dickinson's Poems: As She Preserved Them*.
Edited by Cristanne Miller, The Belknap Press of Harvard University
Press, 2016.

- Dickinson, Emily. "Letters from Dickinson to Abiah Root." 8 Sep. 1846.
From *Dickinson Electronic Archives.*
http://archive.emilydickinson.org/correspondence/aroot/l13.html.

- Dickinson, Emily. "Emily Dickinson's Correspondences." 1852. From
*Dickinson Electronic Archives.*
http://archive.emilydickinson.org/working/hl9.htm.

- Dickinson, Emily. "Emily Dickinson's Intimate Letters to Susan
Huntington Dickinson." 1852. From *The New York Times Archives*.
https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com
/books/first/h/hart-open.html.

- Dickinson, Emily. "Letters from Dickinson to Otis Phillips Lord." 3
December 1882. From *Dickinson Electronic Archives*.
http://archive.emilydickinson.org/correspondence /lord/l790.html.

- Dickinson, Emily. "Letters from Dickinson to Otis Phillips Lord." 30
April 1882. From *Dickinson Electronic Archives*.
http://archive.emilydickinson.org/correspondence /lord/l750.html.

- Mudge, Jean McClure. "Emily Dickinson and 'Sister Sue.'" *Prairie Schooner*, vol. 52, no. 1, 1978, pp. 90--108. *JSTOR*,
http://www.jstor.org/stable/40630521. Accessed 11 Dec. 2023.

- Onodera, Saori. "Two Forms of 'Heaven' in Emily Dickinson's Poetry."
*Sophia English Studies*, vol. 33, 2008, pp. 19--27. *EBSCOhost*,
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=
mzh&AN=2010420312&site=ehost-live&scope=site.

- Phillips, Christopher N. "Keeping the Sabbath at Home: Emily Dickinson
and the Rise of Private Hymnody." *Above the American Renaissance: David
S. Reynolds and the Spiritual Imagination in American Literary Studies*,
edited by Harold K. Bush and Brian Yothers, University of Massachusetts
Press, 2018, pp. 211--26. *EBSCOhost*,
search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=mzh&AN=202017919566&site=ehost
live&scope=site.

- Scheurich, Neil. "Suffering and Spirituality in the Poetry of Emily
Dickinson." *Pastoral Psychology*, vol. 56, no. 2, Nov. 2007, pp.
189--97. *EBSCOhost*, https://doi.org/10. 1007/s11089-007-0109-7.

- St. Armand, Barton Levi. "Paradise Deferred: The Image of Heaven in the
Work of Emily Dickinson and Elizabeth Stuart Phelps." *American
Quarterly*, vol. 29, no. 1, 1977, pp. 55--78. *JSTOR*,
https://doi.org/10.2307/2712261. Accessed 11 Dec. 2023.
