---
title: 'Honeyed Crowns'
name: Johnna
surname: Ryan
authordescription: "Johnna is a freshman English Language and Literature major at Palm Beach Atlantic University."
tags: ["fiction"]
permalink: "/4/4/honeyed-crowns/"
---
The church was draped with heart-shaped leaves and neighbored by a green
bush with long white and yellow blooms. Moss crept up the cream-colored,
grainy walls.

Every week, the children came outside for Sunday school and ran around
the church. It was their kingdom, and they ruled this small patch of
earth for one hour a week. The young rulers inspected rocks and insects,
stuck their fingers in the dirt, and hopped up on the metal fence.

Throughout the hour, the children approached the large green bush beside
the church wall. Some ran and some crept, but upon reaching the bush,
every child stopped in reverence and gently plucked a flower from the
vines. After retrieving a flower, they brought it to their thirsty lips
and sucked the nectar from the flower before discarding the empty
blossom. Rejuvenated, they would bound back to their brethren and free
caged cries as heavenward glories and hallelujahs.

One week, there was a new child. Reina hid by one of the church's stone
columns, arms hugged against her chest. With every joyous approach or
exclamation, she flinched and retreated further.

Reina watched all the children with fear and an air of jealousy. She
wanted to be a ruler of the churchyard like them and climb the stone
wall and jump off the swings midair. But her heart was cautious and too
scared to leap around the church without the proper permission.

Another child ran past her, newly filled with triumph and praise as he
departed from the honeysuckle bush by the church wall. Curiosity got the
best of her, and Reina slowly edged her way closer to the bush, freezing
when someone ran by. She reached the bush and gazed up at it. It was
much larger than it had appeared from across the churchyard.

In the bush's small corner, everything was quiet and muffled. She held
her breath as she walked within an arm's reach of the leaves. She
reached out and touched one of the blossoms that grew on the bush, its
petal-skin soft and velvety.

Reina glanced over her shoulder to see if any of the children had
noticed her and balked when she saw everyone staring at her. But their
gaze was not filled with anger or disdain. They looked curious, as if
they each held their breath with her to see what happened next.

*They're waiting for something.* She turned back to the bush with small,
shaky hands and gently pulled a thin bloom from the bush. She brought
the flower to her lips, closed her eyes, and drank.

The honey had no flavor besides sickeningly sweet. It flowed down her
throat, the sweet exultation spreading out to her fingers and toes. She
dropped the flower to the grass and an irresistible smile whispered
across her face.

Reina turned back to the kings and queens and stepped away from the
honeysuckle bush. Whatever glory was in those honeysuckles had already
taken hold of her, and she took off running toward the other children,
praise springing from her tongue.

Every week, Reina ruled the churchyard with her fellow kings and queens.
