---
title: "Unknowable Greatness: Understanding Emily Dickinson's Uncertain Inquiry
through Job's Insistent Questioning"
name: Macy
surname: Wright
authordescription: "Macy is an English, Biblical and Religious Studies, and Chemistry sophomore at Messiah University."
tags: ["web exclusive"]
permalink: "/4/4/job-dickinson/"
---
Emily Dickinson wrote in a letter to the Norcross sisters: "It is true
that the unknown is the largest need of the intellect, though for it, no
one thinks to thank God" (qtd. in McIntosh 123). Throughout Emily
Dickinson's poetic oeuvre is evidence of her commitment to elevating the
value of uncertainty. This investment in uncertainty, in tandem with her
perpetual awareness of her own human finitude uniquely characterizes
Dickinson's approach to questions of faith through her poetry.
Dickinson's willingness to wrestle with great questions of faith, her
familiarity with the Scriptures, her poetic artistry, and her thematic
emphasis on difficult aspects of life--such as suffering and
death--invite connections to the book of Job. Patrick Keane, Professor
Emeritus of Le Moyne College, acknowledges these connections, writing
that "the same mysterious forces, divine and natural, animating the book
of Job ...are 'at play'" in the work of Emily Dickinson (31). Though
these connections are present both thematically and biographically,
Keane is one of very few scholars to explore these similarities. Such
exploration can provide a more nuanced, insightful understanding of
Dickinson's distinctive manner of dealing with questions of faith by
distinguishing her deviations from Job's alternative manner of exploring
questions of life and faith. While Emily Dickinson's poetic approach to
questions of faith overlaps Job's story, Dickinson's approach is also
characterized by a willingness to embrace uncertainty.

Exploring this idea in conjunction with Job's contrasting approach to
questions of faith reveals that her comfortability with uncertainty
stems from an understanding of the smallness of humanity in comparison
to the vastness of God and His created world.

Emily Dickinson's poetry and written correspondence clearly reveal her
intimate knowledge of Scripture and her bold engagement with biblical
texts. Though her poetry does not feature any explicit references to the
book of Job, scholar Jerry Herndon acknowledges that "she does make
several allusions to this book in her letters" (45). Several scholars
have made thematic connections between Dickinson's poetry and the book
of Job, but much of the existing scholarship is extremely limited in its
scope. Additionally, some of this scholarship demonstrates uninformed
and unsupported readings of both Dickinson and Job. Patrick Keane, in
Chapter 1 of his book *Emily Dickinson's Approving God: Divine Design
and the Problem of Suffering*, explores the book of Job as a "thematic
precursor of enormous magnitude" to Emily Dickinson's poem "Apparently
with no surprise --" (28). Although his connections between Dickinson's
poem and the book of Job are extensive and significant, Keane's argument
is limited in scope as he applies the influence of Job primarily to one
particular Dickinson poem. Other scholars, including Jerry Herndon and
Ren√© Rapin, have approached these connections similarly, arguing that
specific poems are likely allusions to the book of Job, but failing to
apply their argument beyond these particular poems. Niels Kjaer's
article "Emily Dickinson, Job's Sister" attempts to discuss the
connections between Dickinson and Job more broadly, but in doing so, he
demonstrates a lack of understanding of Dickinson's biography, writing
that "Dickinson has no doubts ... that God exists," a statement which
directly contradicts Dickinson's own writings

regarding her faith (23). Kjaer demonstrates a lack of understanding
regarding the book of Job as well. He writes that Job's wife is taken
from him, when she is actually the only family member remaining after
Job's affliction in the biblical account (*English Standard Version,*
Job 2.9-10). While Dickinson's relationship to the book of Job is
notable enough to have received scholarly attention, it is evident that
there is significant room for the expansion and development of these
ideas. A more thorough exploration of the connections between Emily
Dickinson's poetry and the book of Job will allow for a nuanced
understanding of Dickinson's poetry, specifically that which pertains to
Job-like questions of faith.

Scholars take vastly different approaches to interpreting the book of
Job, and in order to appropriately handle the text in comparison to
Dickinson's work, it is important to establish working assumptions. For
the purposes of this paper, I am writing from the perspective that Job
is written as an allegory, rather than a historical account. The
allegorical reading of Job is common, though not without controversy
among biblical scholars. Furthermore, I am working under the assumption
that Job is not an example of a righteous sufferer, but rather that he
falls short in his response to suffering by elevating himself to a
degree which purports his intellect to be equivalent to God's. A vast
majority of biblical scholars align with this position, and God's
intervention through the He reproving speeches in Job 38-41 supports
this interpretation as well. This approach to interpreting the book of
Job will serve as a lens through which to view Dickinson's work.

Dickinson does not stray away from asking big questions in her poetry,
but her purpose in such inquiry is exploration rather than certainty.
Her commitment to uncertainty has been a defining feature of her poetry
and a subject of great scholarly interest. James

McIntosh, Professor Emeritus of English and American culture at the
University of Michigan has classified Dickinson as "a poet of intellect
whose special province is the unknown" ( 124). This theme of uncertainty
manifests itself clearly in Dickinson's poem "It troubled me as once I
was --," in which the speaker describes their confusion regarding how
the Heavens, which "weighed the most -- by far --" as compared to a
miniscule atom, do not " break away -- / And tumble -- Blue -- on me --"
(ll. 5, 15-16). The first two stanzas of the poem feature a childlike
tone of insistent questioning, and these stanzas feature words such as
"Concluding," "prove," and "understand," emphasizing the speaker's
attempt to seek answers ( ll. 3, 7, 8). Through this knowledge-centric
language in conjunction with the childlike tone and the explicit
acknowledgment that the questions "troubled \[them\]" because they were
"once a Child --," Dickinson seems to assert that this desire to
definitively answer questions is a childish endeavor, a sign of
immaturity (ll. 1-2). Stanza 3 marks a shift in the poem, as the speaker
takes on a more mature tone and modifies their approach to dealing with
these questions. The speaker does not abandon the questions or cease to
consider possible answers; rather, they make a conscious choice to
continue pondering: "Life set me larger -- problems -- / Some I shall
keep -- to solve" (ll. 9-10). The speaker's choice here is to "keep" the
problems themselves rather than to obtain their answers (l. 9).
Furthermore, as the speaker has matured, the inconclusiveness of these
problems no longer "trouble\[s\]" them as it did when they were a child;
the problems now "puzzle" the speaker instead (ll.1, 14). This shift
indicates that to Dickinson, the ability to feel comfortable with the
unknown and to continue questioning, despite the inevitable
unknowableness of the answers is a sign of intellectual maturity.

Not only does Dickinson demonstrate through her poetry a high regard for
uncertainty, but she also frames uncertainty as a necessity and a source
of opportunity by connecting it to possibility. In the uncertain,
possibilities abound, whereas definiteness and certainty preclude
possibility by promoting an emphasis on singularity. In one of her most
well-known poems, "I dwell in Possibility --", Dickinson defines her
vocation as poet as a function of possibility, which she characterizes
as "A fairer House than Prose -- / More numerous of Windows -- /
Superior for Doors" (ll. 2-4). Based on Dickinson's well-established
love of home, describing possibility as house implies her affection for
it; possibility is tantamount to comfort and to openness, as implied by
the references to numerous windows and doors. Dickinson concludes this
poem by describing her "Occupation" as poet as "spreading wide my narrow
Hands / to gather Paradise" (ll. 10-12). James von der Heydt, Professor
of English at Phillips Exeter Academy, writes that "the gathering of
Paradise" is an act of "laying claim to what one knows" (79). This
interpretation, however, does not account for the expressed
"narrow\[ness\]" of the speaker's hands (l. 12), which suggests an
inability to actually gather Paradise, an inability to "lay claim to
what one knows" in the way von der Heydt describes (79). Rather, the
poem's ending indicates that uncertainty-- this inability to gather the
fullness of Paradise, to know fully-- is requisite for possibility.
Dickinson, in this poem, describes uncertainty as the foundation of her
poetic vocation; embracing that which is unknown and uncertain as an
essential piece of what it means for her to be a poet.

Dickinson's general vocational commitment to embracing uncertainty in
her poetry manifests itself more specifically in her approach to
exploring questions of faith and her engagement with topics such as God
and Heaven. In his book *Nimble Believing: Dickinson and*

*the Unknown,* James McIntosh quotes Dickinson's statement from four
years prior to her death "We both believe and disbelieve a hundred times
an Hour, which keeps Believing nimble --" (1). Dickinson's "nimble"
approach to faith is rooted in her comfortability with what she cannot
know. McIntosh writes of Dickinson's conception of God that "What she
has 'faith' in tends to be left undefined because she assumes that it is
unknowable" (1). This statement explicates the connection between
Dickinson's faith and her commitment to the unknown, presenting the
relationship between them as one which is mutually beneficial; her
acceptance of the unknown bolsters her faith, and her faith allows her
to be content with incomplete knowledge. Richard Brantley, Professor
Emeritus of English at the University of Florida, supports this claim,
arguing that Dickinson's doubt is essential to her process of belief:
"\[she\] found more faith in honest doubt than in half the creeds" (
162). That being said, Dickinson boldly engages her doubts, never
straying away from questions regarding her faith, and this willingness
to engage her questions openly and to bring them before both God and her
readers connects her intimately to the character of Job, who likewise
exhibits a bold, questioning spirit.

Many of the questions of faith which Dickinson explores through her
poetry parallel those which Job asks of God in the biblical text,
including questions surrounding the purpose of suffering. The question
of why God allows human suffering, and more specifically why He allows
the righteous and the faithful to suffer, is at the core of the book of
Job. In Job's plea to God, he says, "Make me know my transgression and
my sin. Why...do you count me as your enemy?" (Job 13.23-24). Job's cry
for justice and his honest questioning of God's intentions is echoed in
Dickinson's poem "He strained my faith --." A number of scholars
including Jerry Herndon and Niels Kjaer have convincingly identified
this poem as an allusion to the book of

Job, as the speaker laments that God is testing hisfaith without reason,
forgetting his love for the speaker. Reading this poem as an allusion to
Job reveals its questioning nature. Stanza 4 reads:

Wrung me -- with Anguish --

But I never doubted him --

'Tho' for what wrong

He did never say -- (ll. 9-12)

In these lines, the speaker echoes the sentiment of Job's plea that God
would "Make known to me my transgression" by expressing ignorance as the
cause of their suffering, but their approaches differ in tone (Job
13.23). Where Job demands answers, the speaker in Dickinson's poem
merely expresses their lack of knowledge.

This expression of lack of knowledge is followed by the speaker's final
cry of "Jesus -- it's your little "John!" / Don't you know -- me?," and
in this exclamation she calls attention to the question of God's
involvement and presence with humanity; the book of Job provides a
thorough exploration of this same question, as Job intermittently feels
antagonized and forgotten by God ( ll. 15-16). In dialogue with his
friends, Job expresses feeling abandoned by God and the difficulty he is
having in sensing His presence: "Oh, that I knew where I might find him
...Behold, I go forward, but he is not there, and backward, but I do not
perceive him; on the left hand when he is working, I do not behold him;
he turns to the right hand, but I do not see him" (Job 23.3, 8-9). Job's
lament here expresses no doubt that God exists, but he does believe God
to be absent and uninvolved with his life in the present. Similarly,
Dickinson's speaker addresses Jesus directly, thereby exhibiting a
degree of confidence in His continued existence, but the question which
follows demonstrates a fear of being forgotten by God. In

referring to themself as Jesus's "little "John,"" the speaker seeks to
remind Jesus of His love for them, as John is "the disciple whom Jesus
loved" (l. 15; John 21.20-24). The subsequent question of "Don't you
know -- me?" implies that though the speaker's confidence in God's
existence remains, their belief in His love and connection has wavered.
However, Dickinson's manuscript also contains an alternative ending to
this poem, which reads "Jesus -- it's your little "John"! / Why -- Slay
-- Me?," implying that the speaker feels attacked rather than forgotten
(ll. 15-16). In presenting these two options for the poem's conclusion,
Dickinson herself demonstrates the same dichotomous fluctuations between
feeling forgotten by God and feeling like the subject of His attack an
emotion that Job's expresses throughout the biblical text. These
questions surrounding God's active involvement with His people unite
Dickinson and Job in their faith-based inquiries, inviting readers to
understand each text more deeply through comparison to the other.

Though Dickinson and Job explore many of the same faith-related
questions, their approach to engaging with these questions varies
significantly. While Dickinson exhibits a unique willingness to accept
uncertainty and engage with questions which she knows she cannot answer,
Job is unwilling to sit in the tension of not-knowing; he seeks answers
relentlessly in an effort to justify himself. In Job's final appeal to
God, he makes the desperate cry of "Oh, that I had one to hear me! (Here
is my signature! Let the Almighty answer me!) Oh, that I had the
indictment written by my adversary!" (Job 31.35). The desperation in
this verse makes evident the depth of Job's thirst for understanding, of
his relentless endeavor to discern a satisfying answer to his abundance
of questions. This desperation stands in stark contrast to Dickinson's
own manner of dealing with unanswered questions and her willingness to
sit contentedly in that which she does not and can not understand.
McIntosh describes Dickinson's relationship to the

unknown, writing that "No one writes as well as she of victimized awe
before the unknowable power at the heart of things" (29). For Job, the
victimization of unknowableness is a source of his indignance rather
than awe; he views unknowableness as a shortcoming of the world rather
than a gift to it.

Determining the source of the variance in Emily Dickinson and Job's
respective approaches to exploring questions of faith provides new
insight and more nuanced interpretations of Dickinson's faith-oriented
poetry. Dickinson's commitment to valuing and accepting uncertainty as
she explores questions of faith is intricately connected to her
awareness of her own human limitations. This connection lies at the
heart of the poem "Their Height in Heaven comforts not --", which
Patrick Keane describes as Dickinson's "acknowledgment that some things
were ultimately unknowable" ( 203). Keane's understanding of the poem
implies not only that Dickinson feels no need to eliminate uncertainty,
but also that she understands she is incapable of doing so, thus
acknowledging her own limitations in discerning answers to her
questions. In this poem, Dickinson creates an imaginative and appealing
image of that which is unknown: "The House of Supposition -- / The
Glimmering Frontier that skirts the Acres of Perhaps --" (ll. 5-6). This
sweeping description frames uncertainty in an overwhelmingly positive
light, positioning it as a requisite for possibility and opportunity,
and her use of nounal capitalization in these lines provides an added
depth of significance to the concept of uncertainty. The speaker's
admission that "I'm finite -- I can't see --" immediately precedes these
lines, thereby drawing a direct connection between the allure of
uncertainty and human finitude as Keane's summary of the poem suggests
(l. 4). Dickinson concludes the poem with the speaker's statement that
"This timid life of Evidence / Keeps pleading -- "I don't know" --" (ll.
14-15). The speaker's honest confession here is a

demonstration of humility which stands in stark contrast to Job's
demanding cry of "Answer me!" as he makes his final appeal to God (Job
31.35). This contrast suggests that Dickinson's acknowledgment of human
limitations, which Job lacks, is at the root of her ability to accept
uncertainty when Job is unable to yield to that which he cannot know.

In her poetry, Dickinson's awareness of her limitations is very
frequently coupled with her wonder at the vastness of nature -- of that
which is external to herself -- and this connection further provides
contrast to Job's need for answers. Dickinson's poem "I saw no Way --
the Heavens were stitched --" beautifully articulates the tension
between the smallness of humanity and the mysterious vastness of the
world. Using grand terms such as "Heavens," "Columns,""Hemispheres," and
"Universe," Dickinson paints a picture of a large, unknowable existence
which is definitively separate from the speaker, who says: "I touched
the Universe -- // And back it slid" ( ll. 4-5). Having been separated
from the Universe in this manner, the speaker goes on to describe
themself as "A speck upon a Ball --," which evokes an image of the
speaker's smallness in comparison to the great vastness of the Universe
(l. 6). James von der Heydt, in writing of Dickinson's "poetic
humility," encompasses this relationship between the smallness of the
self and the comparative grandeur of the Universe, claiming that
"Dickinson's work has something to do, in nearly equal proportions, both
with enormous power and with almost total powerlessness" (83). Von der
Heydt's statement connects Dickinson's recognition of human limitation
to powerlessness, emphasizing that it involves a yielding of control and
a demonstration of humility.

The author of the book of Job similarly recognizes the relationship
between awareness of human limitation and humility, as evidenced by the
content of the fourth Elihu speech. Elihu, a

character who imparts wisdom "on God's behalf" through his reprimand of
Job in the latter half of the biblical text, is intentional in calling
Job to "stop and consider the wondrous works of God," thereby inviting
him to recognize his own smallness as compared to the works of God in
nature; Elihu calls Job's attention to the skies, the clouds, and the
thunder and lightning in an effort to help him look beyond himself in
the way that Dickinson does so naturally (Job 36.2, 37.14, 36.28-37.2).
Elihu's instruction to Job presents the merit of Dickinson's humble
recognition of smallness. To use von der Heydt's language, Elihu
demonstrates that the "enormous power" which Job can find by looking to
the vastness of nature will allow him to experience an "almost total
powerlessness" and an ability to accept what he cannot know as Dickinson
does so adeptly (83). Applying von der Heydt's language to the book of
Job reveals a nuanced reading of Emily Dickinson, making it clear that
her reverence for nature is innately tied to her own sense of smallness.
In this manner, Dickinson not only accepts her smallness, but celebrates
it. Fred Robinson writes that Dickinson celebrates her smallness "in a
double consciousness that contracts the universe to the dimensions of
the eye and dilates the eye to the dimensions of the universe" (34).
That is, seeing herself less allows Dickinson to see creation more
clearly, and seeing creation more clearly deepens her conception of her
own smallness.

Ultimately, both Dickinson's poetry and the book of Job make it clear
that becoming aware of the vastness of God's creation leads to a greater
sense of the vast unknowableness of God Himself. This idea is central to
Dickinson's poem "Time feels so vast that were it not." Elisa New,
Professor of American Literature at Harvard University, writes that "the
poem seems simply to be about the overwhelming of the finite self by
Eternity" (17). This summary of the poem's initial stanza demonstrates
the relationship between the self and the divine to be one

of incomparable difference in size. Throughout the poem, Dickinson
presents time with a unique physicality, using language which evokes
images of great size and clearly defined shape. Word choices such as
"Eternity," "Finity," "Size," and "Stupendous" create a dynamic,
unbalanced relationship between the finite and the eternal, supporting
New's reading of the poem (ll. 2, 4, 6, 7). Dickinson also uses circles
as an image to draw the connection between the speaker's finitude and
God's Eternal nature, describing time as a "Circumference" to emphasize
its cyclical and ongoing nature in contrast to the speaker's more static
existence (l. 3). This awareness that Dickinson expresses through the
poem of her own finitude in relationship to God's infiniteness is what
Job lacks in his response to suffering and his approach to asking
questions. Elihu reminds Job directly that "God is greater than man" and
encourages him to acknowledge this, saying, "Remember to extol his work,
of which men have sung. All mankind has looked on it; man beholds it
from afar. Behold, God is great, and we know him not" (Job 33.12,
36.24-26). In emphasizing that mankind beholds God's work "from afar,"
the author of the book of Job emphasizes humanity's physical distance
and smallness relative to God in the same manner as Dickinson, and
emphasizes that God's greatness creates a figurative, spiritual distance
as well (Job 36.25). When read in light of Elihu's encouragement to Job,
"Time feels so vast that were it not" serves to demonstrate that
Dickinson's comfortability with uncertainty enables her to accept her
smallness and "extol \[God's\] work" in the way that Elihu describes
(Job 36.24).

Not only does Dickinson's willingness to embrace uncertainty enable her
to understand her own smallness, but it allows her to understand the
fleeting nature of our world more broadly; this understanding is evident
through her poem "This World is not Conclusion --." In this initial line
alone, Dickinson demonstrates the relationship between uncertainty and
smallness through

the dual meaning of the word "Conclusion" (l. 1). Reading "Conclusion"
as an end yields an understanding that our world is not the complete
picture; there is more to life than the physicality of our planet (l.
1). Conversely, reading "Conclusion" as a deduction or resolution to be
drawn demonstrates an assertion of uncertainty, emphasizing that our
world is not defined by the things we can know (l. 1). McIntosh
describes this poem as one with "a structure of nimble believing"
because "it begins with a positive assertion but ends in conclusive
irresolution" (33). While this poem absolutely promotes Dickinson's
habit of nimble believing, the double meaning of "Conclusion" in the
opening line of the poem adds a degree of uncertainty which precludes it
from reading as "positive assertion" in the way McIntosh describes (l.
1; 33). Rather, this initial line establishes a sense of indefiniteness
from the outset of the poem by sustaining multiple possibilities for
interpretation. Furthermore, throughout the poem, Dickinson's manuscript
offers several alternative word choices as is typical of her poetry.
Commenting on this practice, McIntosh furthers his claim regarding
Dickinson's "nimble belief" by explaining that "Dickinson allows for
believing and disbelieving even within the form of her texts. Simply on
a verbal level her practice of not choosing definitively among
alternatives for the words of her poems is itself a form of knowing
vacillation" (32). In the context of "This World is not Conclusion --,"
we can apply McIntosh's assertion further to demonstrate that
Dickinson's comfortability with numerous possibilities in her verbal
choices parallels her comfortability with uncertainty in questions of
faith. This comfortability is intrinsically connected to her
understanding that there is more to faith than what this world offers;
the "knowing vacillation" she demonstrates stems from a belief that the
vastness of what is external to herself and to her world is ultimately
unknowable (32).

The book of Job culminates in the Yahweh speeches which present God's
response to Job's appeal and serve to demonstrate the importance of
maintaining an awareness of individual finitude in comparison to the
vast majesty of God and His work, both seen and unseen; Dickinson's
poetry consistently models this understanding, demonstrating that
smallness and uncertainty have great value. God's response to Job takes
the form of 77 rhetorical questions, and Patrick Keane writes in
comparing Job's view of God to Dickinson's view of God that these
questions are intended "to imperiously reprimand \[Job\] as a mere
mortal who has no business confronting divinity" (29). In other words,
God is reminding Job that the "Circumference" of God's eternal nature
will "Engross \[his\] Finity --" (ll. 3--4). The first words of God's
answer to Job are "Who is this that darkens counsel by words without
knowledge?" (Job 38.2). This question indicates that Job's primary fault
in his approach to questioning is that he failed to accept his
uncertainty and professed to understand that which was beyond his
comprehension. By contrast, we can more fully appreciate Dickinson's
willingness to explore that which she does not understand without
professing to answer the unanswerable. Furthermore, in ending with God's
"litany of unanswered questions" to Job, the author of the book of Job
concludes the text with uncertainty, as the only answer which the book
of Job provides is that some answers are unattainable (29). This
conclusion not only acknowledges uncertainty, but promotes it as a
necessary part of faith, and its necessity is at the center of
Dickinson's poetic approach to questions of faith.

Though scholarship on the relationship between Emily Dickinson and the
book of Job is limited, exploring their contrasting approaches to
questions of faith as a function of uncertainty and human limitation
demonstrates that reading Job in conversation with Dickinson provides a
nuanced understanding of Dickinson's unique investment in the unknown
and her striking

humility. When Job repents in the final chapter of the biblical text, he
says, "Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too
wonderful for me, which I did not know" (Job 42.3). Job's confession in
this verse encapsulates the error which Dickinson, by contenting herself
amidst her smallness and uncertainty, avoids. In considering the book of
Job's commentary on the vastness of God and unanswerable questions, we
can see more clearly the value of uncertainty as a path to possibility
and a means of maintaining a humble awareness of our own finitude.
Dickinson's thematic similarities to the book of Job, as well as their
common interest in approaching questions of faith through the lens of
possibility rather than definite answers invites further research on
their relationship. Further studies on Dickinson and Job could explore
their respective commentaries on the purpose of human life -- the lives
of both the righteous and the wicked, the blessed and the suffering --
as related to human finitude, uncertainty, and indefiniteness.
Dickinson's work is so heavily influenced, both explicitly and
implicitly, by intertextuality, with the influence of the Bible being
most prominent. Though her connections to Job are less explicit, they
yield a fruitful depth of understanding about Dickinson's poetic
approach to exploring questions of faith and about what it looks like to
"dwell in Possibility --."


## Works Cited

- Brantley, Richard E. \"The Interrogative Mood of Emily Dickinson\'s
Quarrel with God.\" *Religion and Literature*, vol. 46, no. 1, spring
2014, pp. 157-65. *JSTOR*, www.jstor.org/stable/24752995. Accessed 27 Nov. 2023.

- Herndon, Jerry A. \"A Note on Emily Dickinson and Job.\" *Christianity
and Literature*, vol. 30, no. 3, spring 1981, pp. 45-52. *JSTOR*,
www.jstor.org/stable/44314337. Accessed 12 Dec. 2023.

- Keane, Patrick. *Emily Dickinson\'s Approving God : Divine Design and
the Problem of Suffering*. U of Missouri P, 2008. *ProQuest Ebook
Central*,
ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/messiah-ebooks/reader.action?docID=3440717\#.
Accessed 27 Nov. 2023.

- Kjaer, Niels. \"Emily Dickinson, Job\'s Sister.\" *Dickinson Studies:
Emily Dickinson (1830-86), U.S. Poet*, vol. 65, 1988, pp. 19-24. *MLA
International Bibliography*. Accessed 27 Nov. 2023.

- McIntosh, James. *Nimble Believing: Dickinson and the Unknown*. Ann
Arbor, U of Michigan P, 2000.

- New, Elisa. \"Difficult Writing, Difficult God: Emily Dickinson\'s Poems
beyond Circumference.\" *Religion and Literature*, vol. 18, no. 3, fall
1986, pp. 1-27. *JSTOR*,
www.jstor.org/stable/40059320. Accessed 27 Nov. 2023.

- Rapin, Rene. \"Dickinson\'s \'I Never Lost as Much but Twice.\'\" *The
Explicator*, vol. 31, no. 52, 1973. *MLA International Bibliography*,
messiah-illiad-oclc-org.ezproxy.messiah.edu/illiad/illiad.dll?Action=10&Form=75&Valu
e=137038. Accessed 12 Dec. 2023.

- Robinson, Fred Miller. \"Strategies of Smallness: Wallace Stevens and
Emily Dickinson.\" *The Wallace Stevens Journal*, vol. 10, no. 1, 1986,
pp. 27-35. *JSTOR*,
www.jstor.org/stable/44879203. Accessed 27 Nov. 2023.

- Von der Heydt, James E. \"Dickinson Outdoors.\" *At the Brink of
Infinity : Poetic Humility in Boundless American Space*, U of Iowa P,
2008, pp. 75-105. *ProQuest Ebook Central*,
ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/messiah-ebooks/reader.action?docID=843215.
Accessed 27 Nov. 2023.