---
title: 'Symbols and Sins: The Perception of Sin in <i>The Scarlet Letter</i> and <i>Moby Dick</i>'
name: Ariane
surname: Campbell
authordescription: ""
tags: ["fiction"]
permalink: "/4/4/symbols-sins/"
---

The perception of sin from a pious community like that in Nathaniel
Hawthorne's *The Scarlet Letter* strongly differs from a diverse
community as seen in Herman Melville's *Moby Dick.* The degree to which
Hester Pryne and Captain Ahab's respective communities accept them
depends on their individual character and conduct. Hester represents the
positive end of the possible outcomes while Ahab represents the
dangerous side. The symbolism attached to their respective sins strongly
differs due to their outward deeds. The scarlet letter "A" is a brand of
a sin Hester already committed and wishes to leave behind, whereas the
whale Moby Dick represents the sin Ahab pursues. While they both isolate
themselves, Hester positions herself for success by becoming a valuable
seamstress, and Ahab retreats further into his vengeance. The inclusion
of children in both novels deepens the ever-present religious symbolism
and Transcendentalist ideas of both novels. Pearl represents the
persistence of truth and, at times, becomes her mother's voice when
Hester feels unable to speak. Though she is highly affected by Hester's
isolation, Pearl retains her impish, childlike traits while Pip---one of
two children in *Moby Dick*---becomes corrupted by increasingly adult
issues faced by the crew. The consequences of Hester and Ahab's
respective actions change not only their lives, but the lives of those
around them. Hester and Ahab demonstrate through their individual
natures, grapples with sin, and interactions with children how sin is
perceived in differing communities.

Without a doubt, Hester and Ahab's individual natures influence whether
their respective sins are accepted and how they are symbolized.
According to Haihong Gao, "The aim \[of symbolism\] is to arouse
people\'s association \[of an object or idea\], strengthen the work of
the expression and artistic effect. The symbolization can \[then\] be
divided into metaphorical symbol and suggestive symbol" (1726). The
scarlet letter "A" certainly strikes the balance between profound and
specific meaning. Although Hester was branded by the scarlet letter,
which is a specific reference to her sin, she personalized the "A" with
golden embroidery (10). The beauty of the letter comes not from the sin
itself, but from Hester's bravery in accepting responsibility for her
actions. The letter's red color thus becomes an ambiguous, highly
interpretive symbol. Hester's desire and recklessness led to adultery,
but her continued love for Dimmesdale compels her to protect him (Gao
1728). Religiously, red can symbolize sin and its power over human
nature, as emphasized by Hester's sin affecting the majority of her
adult life. Hawthorne writes, "The scarlet letter was her passport into
regions where other women dared not tread. Shame, Despair, Solitude!
These had been her teachers---stern and wild ones---and they had made
her strong, but taught her much amiss" (197). Hester thus experiences
great resistance from her pious community when she aspires to be seen as
human rather than the embodiment of her sin. However, in Christian
contexts, the color red most commonly refers to the blood of Christ and
its redemptive power. Across the seven years Hester wears the scarlet
letter, she is publicly humiliated and shunned but ultimately forgiven
by the townspeople. She earns their trust again and even becomes a
beacon of light for young women. Accepting her own sin thus eventually
leads to the town sharing that same attitude. Overall, the scarlet
letter captures the virtuous and vicious halves of Hester's nature, thus
representing the whole of humanity.

On the contrary, where Hester seeks to better herself, Ahab actively
pursues sin. He obsessively hunts Moby Dick to avenge the loss of his
leg (Melville 290). Amongst him and the crew, Moby Dick becomes a symbol
of savagery. However, Ahab is perceived to be just as primal in
character. He is initially described as a "grand, ungodly, god-like man"
(158). According to Xiaoni Ye, Ahab can represent a pagan (2622). Amidst
a religiously diverse crew, this does not pose a problem until he proves
to be dangerous. His feral focus on Moby Dick blinds him to the needs of
his crew. Concealing the secret crew unravels the surface of his deeply
dishonest, coercive nature (378). While Ahab does not hide his desire
for vengeance, unlike Hester's beautiful letter, his sin becomes ugly.
He does not recognize his own humanity nor the mortality of his crew.
Biblically, the name Ahab can refer to King Ahab of the Old Testament.
As stated in 1 Kings 16:30, "Ahab son of Omri did more evil in the eyes
of the Lord than any of those before him" (*New International Version*).
Captain Ahab's actions make him a symbol of violence. Ironically, Moby
Dick becomes a symbol of divinity. The white whale is perceived by the
narrator as an instrument of justice. Ahab, devoid of virtue and
dangerous to his crew, becomes a target. Given the religiously charged
symbolism behind his name, Ahab's death in contrast to Hester's long
life can be interpreted as the result of pursuing sin. Therefore, the
symbolism of their respective sins is heavily influenced by character
and conduct.

Furthermore, Hester's and Ahab'scharacter reflects the degree to which
they exercise transcendentalist ideals. According to Ramtin Noor-Tehrani
Noor Mahini and Erin Barth, transcendentalism asserts that "human nature
is innately good and that truth can be acquired from intuition and
nature, not from reason and logic" (1). Hester most clearly adopts
transcendentalist practices through her fierce individuality. She
demonstrates self-reliance by living alone, providing for herself and
Pearl, and embracing her spirituality. Though her isolation from
community was initially a punishment, she later chose to remain apart
from the town and closer to nature---another key aspect of
transcendentalism. She twice describes her seven years of spiritual
searching as a "moral wilderness" (175, 196). Living close to nature
allows her introspective mind to wander and find closure for her
adultery, which gives her the emotional maturity to help Dimmesdale
through his guilt. Before she reaches such growth, Hester relies on her
intuition to see through the townspeople's facades. For instance, when
the town leaders imply she is not capable of raising Pearl, Hester is
prepared to protect herself. What the governor calls her "badge of
shame" Hester reconfigures to be her greatest defense (81).
Self-confidence and trust in intuition are two hallmarks of
transcendentalism. As a result, Hester "continues to live a life
undisturbed by the harsh judgment of others around her" and becomes
locally famous for being a woman of strong will (Mahini and Barth 2).
The town changing the scarlet letter's meaning from "adultery" to "able"
reflects her journey to better herself. The lore surrounding Hester and
the scarlet letter is a product of her unwavering individuality.
Hester's transcendentalist methods to facing adversity ultimately
strengthen her character. Her community does not forget her sin, but
they perceive her nature to be more virtuously potent than her past.

On the other hand, Ahab practices the opposite of transcendentalism.
Mahini and Barth state, "In contrast with transcendentalism,
anti-transcendentalism (better known as \[skepticism or\] dark
romanticism) is based on the belief that evil and sin are inherent
characteristics in human beings" (1). Ahab's sin alone does not mark him
as an anti-transcendentalist, but the actions leading up to his
confrontation with Moby Dick do. Ahab prioritizes his revenge over all
else, making it his only conviction. His highly influential leadership
inspires his crew to remain with him and not consider escape. According
to Michael J. Hoffman, "Ahab's charisma is apparent in the very way the
crew follows him many times in dangerous situations with a veneration
bordering on worship and cosmic fear" (11). However, the crew loses
their original enthusiasm to be under his command. Though they do not
formulate a mutiny, they collectively share a growing disdain for the
captain. They view their entire voyage as "humorously perilous" but lack
the courage to overpower Ahab's rage (544). In addition to the crew's
changing attitudes, Ahab's psychological state worsens---a symptom of
anti-transcendentalism. Ahab starts the voyage as a calm, driven man and
decays into a crazed husk of a human being. He threatens the lives of
his crew when they attempt to question his cause. When Starbuck warns
him to beware of himself, Ahab exclaims, "He waxes brave, but
nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!" (Melville 793). Ahab's
anti-transcendentalism darkens his mind, spirit, and perception of
reality. The crew cannot escape Ahab's evil hold, but they correctly
perceive his anti-transcendentalist character. The whale is no longer
the story's monster; Ahab is.

Hester and Ahab's respective struggle with sin dictates the strength of
their spirituality. The beginning of Hester's spiritual journey is
inevitably public. Yet she clings onto what first drove her to
sin---free will. She chooses to beautify the scarlet letter and make it
her own. Carrying Pearl, the physical evidence of her adultery, she
faces her punishment head-on. When a prison guard lays a hand on her
shoulder to move her toward the scaffold, "she repel\[s\] him, by an
action marked with natural dignity and force of character, and step\[s\]
into the open air, as if by her own free will" (8). She moves the crowd
into silence, quieting even the town gossips for a short time. The most
empowering and startling part of her punishment is when she smiles at
the crowd (9). She scares them without sacrificing her
composure---maintaining the transcendentalist notion of dignity (Mahini
and Barth 2). Though she freely accepts her humiliating punishment, the
scarlet letter permanently affects Hester's spiritual identity. She
hides her feminine features under Puritan garments (150). She becomes
increasingly skeptical yet credits God for the lessons the scarlet
letter taught her. Hester later mistakes acceptance of her adultery for
forgetfulness. When she casts the scarlet letter aside in the forest,
Pearl does not recognize her until she pins it on again (212).
Nevertheless, Hester experiences a deeply freeing feeling that inspires
her to reconnect with her femininity. Her spirituality, trademarked by
resilience, undeniably embeds itself into her character. Hester wears
the scarlet letter for the rest of her life with a grace only possible
through self-forgiveness. Her remarkable transformation from adulteress
to individual affirms her spiritual journey.

Contrarily, Ahab does not grapple with sin but willingly submits to it.
Ahab begins his journey by keeping to himself. He allows grandiose
rumors of his captain capabilities to motivate the crew, remaining in
his cabin all the while (191). His forsaken spirituality is not a
concern nor an apparent struggle. His true struggle is containing his
vengeance, which is depicted by his diminishing patience to kill Moby
Dick. Rather than recognize his own sinfulness, Ahab deflects to Moby
Dick. Melville writes, "\[A\]ll evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick" (323). The
private conversation between Ahab and Starbuck in his cabin best
illustrates the damage of his explosive temper. When Starbuck reports a
leak in the casks that may potentially slow them, Ahab orders him to
release all the whale oil into the ocean. At Starbuck's refusal, Ahab
points a rifle at his chest (792). The remainder of Ahab's appearances
match this dangerous intensity. Much like his biblical alter ego, Ahab
becomes a slave to his free will (Ye 3). His humanity decays and he
seemingly loses all sense of morality. He pushes his crew---original and
secret---to their limits pursuing Moby Dick. After chasing the whale for
three days, Starbuck urges Ahab to "desist" and turn away from his
vengeance (941). But Ahab in his free will throws a harpoon at Moby Dick
and essentially dies by his own hand. Ahab and Hester become polar
opposites. Where Ahab's intentions begin as noble and end disastrously,
Hester starts her journey an adulterous and ends being honored by her
town. Their respective struggle with sin thus determines how they are
viewed by their communities.

Uniquely, the inclusion of children within their stories also determines
how their sin is perceived and reflects whether they spiritually mature.
Once again, Hester depicts the positive side. She strives to learn from
her adultery and raises Pearl to be virtuous. Pearl's wild disposition
proves to be a challenge---but a necessary one. According to Lois Cuddy,
"Being a mother is both Hester's perceived avenue for personal
redemption and also her psychological salvation as Pearl speaks for and
acts out all of Hester\'s repressions and passions" (102). Pearl
embodies the wildness present in Hester. As much as Hester attempts to
tame her, Pearl's true nature prevails. Moreover, Hester is socially
pressured to remain polite in all situations. Pearl, on the other hand,
feels no such obligation. Enduring the same isolation as her mother,
Pearl forms no attachment to the townspeople, making her opinions
surprisingly objective. She accurately decodes an adult's character and
treats them accordingly. More importantly, she only allows good people
to approach her and her mother. According to Darrel Abel, "Pearl offers
instinctive affiance to whatever is good in the persons around her--a
trait which vividly reminds adults of the power of goodness still
present in themselves, however obscured by the debasing practices of the
world" (55). She identifies Arthur Dimmesdale as a good man despite his
adultery. However, she also places distance between him and Hester early
on, sensing he is not emotionally prepared to speak with her (112). The
town officials originally sought to separate Pearl and Hester. However,
by centering their relationship on virtue, Hester proves to her town she
is worthy as a mother and greater than her sin.

Within *Moby Dick,* the short-lived connection between Ahab and Pip
demonstrates the consequences of bad leadership. Pip is briefly
introduced by the narrator alongside another child. He goes ignored for
the majority of the novel yet becomes the focus of the tensest whale
hunts. According to Jimmy Packham, "Pip cannot escape the ocean which
has so dramatically impressed itself into his sense of identity, such
that he fails to locate his body and 'drowned bones' anywhere other than
within the ocean's depths" (569). Without a stable adult role model, Pip
looks to the ocean. He seemingly places trust in its volatility instead
of Stubb, who tries to protect him. Pip jumps into the ocean twice for
sanctuary. When afraid during the whale hunt, rather than remain on the
boat with experienced hunters, he entrusts his life to the waves (693).
Stubb is not quick to rescue him the second time, believing the ferocity
of the ocean will scare him (695). Pip instead awakens to the reality of
his situation. He realizes he is not perceived as a child but an adult
who has less value than the whales they are hunting. His innocence is
left behind, leaving him psychologically disoriented (Packham 579). Pip
suddenly finds his identity has no tether. When his "shipmates called
him mad," it is inevitable that Pip absorbs Ahab's behavior next
(Melville 696). Early on the voyage, Pip and the crew lose the allure of
being under Ahab's command. They are instead compelled to witness his
growing madness. Like Pearl, Pip is especially affected by such drastic
changes in the emotional atmosphere. He retreats so deeply into the
background the narrator hardly mentions him. Ahab has no regard for Pip
for the majority of the voyage. When he finally speaks to Pip, the boy
repeatedly attempts to separate himself from his childlike being and
affirm he is not a coward (863). Unlike Pearl, Pip has no healing effect
over Ahab's mental state. While Ahab may exercise generosity offering
his cabin and his hand to hold, the crew perceives them both to be mad
(865). In short, Ahab's dark influence affects Pip so greatly he can no
longer be called a child. The captain's sin not only impacts people in
his community, but has the potential to change them entirely.

Hester and Ahab represent two diametrically opposing natures that
influence how their respective communities perceive them and their sins.
Their individual natures, struggle with sin, and interactions with
children all shape their spirituality and personalities. The symbolism
of the scarlet letter "A" shifts in time with Hester's strive to better
herself; the ambiguity of her situation increases as the town accepts
her value. Hester, moreover, adheres to transcendentalist principles of
self-reliance, self-confidence, and being close to nature, which
ultimately wins her the favor of her town. Despite the weight of
societal pressure and her own sin, Hester positively embraces her free
will. Ahab, on the other hand, is a slave to his free will as he hunts
Moby Dick. The whale's symbolism shifts from savagery to justice as the
crew uncovers Ahab's true nature. His anti-transcendentalist nature
further darkens his crew's view of him. While the pious town is divided
on forgiving Hester, Ahab's religiously diverse crew unanimously agrees
his madness endangers them. Hester and Ahab's respective relationships
with children also determine how their sin is perceived, along with how
they are received by others. Ultimately, Hester and Ahab affirm their
moral identity to their respective communities.

## Works Cited:

- Abel, Darrel. "Hawthorne's Pearl: Symbol and Character." *ELH*, vol. 18,
no. 1, 1951, pp. 50--66. *JSTOR*,
[https://doi.org/10.2307/2872046]{.ul}.

- *Bible Gateway*. 2023, [www.biblegateway.com]{.ul}.

- Cuddy, Lois A. "Mother-Daughter Identification in *The Scarlet Letter*."
*Mosaic: A Journal for the Interdisciplinary Study of Literature*, vol.
19, no. 2, 1986, pp. 101--15. *JSTOR*, http://
[www.jstor.org/stable/24777695]{.ul}.

- Gao, Haihong. "An Analysis of Symbolic Images in *The Scarlet Letter*."
*Theory and Practice in Language Studies*, vol. 8, no. 12, Dec. 2018,
pp. 1725+. *Gale Academic OneFile*,
[link.gale.com/apps/doc/A566681551/AONE?u=west87348&sid=bookmark]{.ul}
AONE&xid=1f2a98bc.

- Hawthorne, Nathaniel. *The Scarlet Letter,* iBooks ed.

- Hoffman, Michael J. "The Anti-Transcendentalism of *Moby-Dick*." *The
Georgia Review*, vol. 23, no. 1, 1969, pp. 3--16. *JSTOR*,
http://www.jstor.org/stable/41396515. Mahini, Ramtin Noor-Tehrani Noor,
and Erin Barth. "*The Scarlet Letter*: Embroidering Transcendentalism
and Anti-transcendentalism Thread for an Early American World." *Journal
of Language Teaching and Research*, vol. 9, no. 3, May 2018, pp. 474+.
*Gale Academic OneFile*, [link.gale.com/apps/doc/A626042801/AONE?u=west87348&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=07cc5923]

- Melville, Herman. *Moby Dick,* iBooks ed.

- Packham, Jimmy. "Pip's Oceanic Voice: Speech and the Sea in
*Moby-Dick*." *The Modern Language Review*, vol. 112, no. 3, 2017, pp.
567--84. *JSTOR*, [https://doi.org/10.5699/]
modelangrevi.112.3.0567

- Ye, Xiaoni. "A Biblical Archetypal Study on *Moby Dick*." *Theory and
Practice in Language Studies*, vol. 12, no. 12, Dec. 2022, pp. 2620+.
*Gale Academic OneFile*, [link.gale.com/]{.ul}
apps/doc/A733969875/AONE?u=west87348&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=64675660.
