---
title: CCE Breaks Ground on New Site, Year-Long Project Eyed
author: Eric Payer
---
Payer: Progress on new site 'a testament to the town's
resilience'

*Editor's Note: Eric Payer works for Church Development Services and is
the Construction Project Manager of the Congregational Church of
Eastford rebuilding project. The following article is written from his
point of view.*

EASTFORD --- Several months ago, I had never heard of Eastford,
Connecticut. My career in construction has taken me to many places ---
some bustling cities, others quiet suburbs --- but none quite like this
small, close-knit town nestled in the rolling hills of Windham County.
Yet, as I now stand at the site of what will soon be a new church
building, I can honestly say that Eastford has already made a lasting
impression on me.

The Congregational Church of Eastford, as many of you know, was
destroyed by arson on April 23, 2023 --- a tragic event that left a void
in the hearts of the congregation and the town. But, in true Eastford
fashion, the resilience and strength of the community have been nothing
short of inspiring as the town comes together to restore what was lost.

Since arriving here earlier this year, I've had the privilege of working
closely with Pastor Mike Moran, and lay leaders like Bob Vincent, Bruce
Barlow, Mike Jenkins, and John Buell. I'm continuously impressed by how
welcoming everyone has been, from local residents, town officials, and
governing bodies have been, such as the Inland Wetlands and Watercourses
Commission and Planning Commission.

The warmth of Eastford's people isn't just in their hospitality, but
also in their passion to rebuild something that represents more than
just bricks and mortar. This church is home to many in the community.

The land, though beautiful, required significant preparation before the
CDS-led team could break ground. Since the foundation of a project
begins long before the first hammer swings, Earth Dynamics construction
team and the site engineering team of Dave Smith and Paul Archer started
with erosion controls to ensure that the surrounding environment
remained undisturbed during construction. It's an important part of the
process --- protecting the water flow, preserving local vegetation, and
making sure that the land remains as unspoiled as possible.

After several weeks of preparatory work, including the installation of
erosion control barriers, grading, and tree removal, the site is now
ready for the next phase. In late July, or early August, the team will
begin construction on the new building, and that's when the real
transformation will start to take shape. Watching the foundation being
laid and the frame of the church rise from the ground will be a moment
we all are eagerly anticipating.

The job of a project manager is to oversee the technical details of the
build, ensuring that everything is done according to plan and on
schedule. But, in a project like this, the personal connection to the
community and its people is just as important. It's not just about the
physical structure we're building --- it's about restoring a symbol of
hope and faith for the people of Eastford.

Out on John Perry Road, I feel like we're doing just that. With every
nail hammered, every board cut, and every piece of the project coming
together, we're not just building a church. We're building a symbol of
recovery, a new beginning, and most importantly, a home for the people
who have supported each other through some dark times.

The new church has been designed to honor the original structure while
incorporating modern, sustainable features. The Congregational Church of
Eastford has been working with architects to create a building that is
both functional and beautiful, one that serves the needs of the
congregation for generations to come.

In addition to the sanctuary, the church will feature community spaces,
classrooms for youth programs, and a fellowship hall --- truly a place
for members to gather, share meals, and continue the work of the church
in their daily lives.

Over the coming months, the construction site will begin to resemble a
church. The foundation will be poured, the framing will rise, and slowly
but surely, the new building will take shape. And while the church won't
be ready for the congregation to return until next year, the progress
we're making today is a testament to the town's resilience.

God has a plan for the Congregational Church of Eastford.


*Courtesy photos*

![three men standing in a muddy clearing](/assets/images/34-1-cce-groundbreaking-1.jpg)
From left, Congregational Church of Eastford Pastor Mike Moran, Eric
Payer of Church Development Services, who is the Construction Project
Manager of the Congregational Church of Eastford rebuilding project, and
CCE Associate Pastor Evan Burgess, at the groundbreaking on June 1.

![A digital rendering of a a view of the front of a wide, modern-style church building with green doors and a steeple with colonial-style details and ornaments](/assets/images/34-1-church-preview-image-2.png)
A rendering of what the completed Congregational Church of Eastford
building will look like when construction is complete.