---
title: From the Congregational Church of Eastford
author: Mike Moran
---

Summer in our patch of the world can be delightful, full of family,
friends, fire pits, fireflies, fun at the lake, porch swings, hiking,
fishing and plenty of "forbidden" food --- like Bucks and hot dogs. Our
church has a pattern of community events in July --- our Frog Jump and
Band Concert (thanks to all our guests for making it a party this year),
and a Sports Camp for kids. That keeps our July busy, but in August we
can hit "refresh" and grab some rest before fall programs and the school
year get going. It is always good to get re-centered on what really
matters in life. I hope you all can find some space to do just that.

Along these lines, I was recently reviewing some spiritual milestones in
recent years for our church. One goes back a decade --- a verse from the
Old Testament that tells God's people to make ready for growth (Isaiah
54:2 for you Bible types). Another was a sermon on our church's YouTube
channel -- one from COVID times. In it, I spoke of the vision we believe
God gave us for our church.

Established in 1777, our church has served a bunch of generations. The
building we lost served our community for nearly 200 years. The pattern
of God's people since the beginning of time has been for one generation
to pass their relationship with God to another. Thousands of years of
this pattern are documented in the Bible, which we hold to be God's
truth.

And that brings me to now, and to our vision. My words back in 2021
acknowledged the presence of kids in our worship time -- and I spoke of
how the Lord has a future prepared for us and for our community. Our
vision then and now is to serve and be involved in this community we
share with all of you. We will actively engage younger generations,
young adults, young families, children and youth. Our vision is that
years from now --- 25, 50, 100 years from now --- there will be a
vibrant and profound witness for the good news of Jesus here in our
community. To do this, our church family today is thinking in terms that
include "young," "new," "fresh," and "lasting."

Back in April 2023 our historic building was destroyed by fire, and as
we have developed our plans to rebuild, this vision has guided us.
Responding to the vision of growth, we were moved to buy new land, to
think in terms of both growth and flexibility for the future. Our vision
was validated as the Lord has doubled our size since the fire. And the
Lord has given us a substantial provision to build a new building. If
you drive by our new site (54 John Perry Rd.), you will see a lot going
on. We are excited and looking forward to moving into the new space next
summer. In the meantime, we are already experiencing "young, new, fresh
and lasting" in the life of our church. We worship every Sunday at 10
a.m. in the Eastford School gym. All sorts of other activities are going
on (check out [cceastford.org](https://cceastford.org/)). So, maybe you are looking for something
new and fresh. If so, come check us out. Blessings!
