---
title: Eastford Students Awarded Scholarships
---

EASTFORD --- Ten Eastford students recently received scholarships from
the Hartford Foundation and the Community Foundation of Eastern
Connecticut.

Scholarships awarded included:

- The Dennis S. Barlow Scholarship: Awarded in memory of Dennis Barlow,
whose dedication, love and commitment to his family, patients and
community were evident throughout his life. Dr. Barlow served on the
Eastford Board of Education and chaired the Facilities Committee.
Provides scholarships to Eastford students pursuing degrees in the
sciences, engineering, or pre-med fields. This year's recipients are
Linnea Barlow and Anna Kellermann.

- Harold D. Carpenter Scholarship: An avid supporter of local history,
Harold Carpenter contributed a supplement to Diane Maher Cameron's book,
"Eastford, The Biography of a New England Town," published in 1976 by
the Eastford Historical Society. In the supplement, Mr. Carpenter shared
first-hand memories of local history. The fund provides scholarships to
graduating students from Eastford who demonstrate financial need,
scholastic ability, and qualities of character --- including integrity,
industriousness, and seriousness of purpose. Special consideration is
given to candidates interested in history. This year's recipient is
Isaac Torcellini.

- Esther & Lucie Harmon and Leta Sabin Trepal Scholarship: Leta Sabin
Trepal was a 12-year member of the Eastford Board of Education and a
Woodstock Academy Trustee. Esther Harmon was a scholar in Teutonic
Philology. Lucie Harmon was an expert in vertebrate biology. The fund
provides scholarships to residents of Eastford who are pursuing a
post-secondary education in any area of study, with special
consideration for non-traditional students returning to academia.
Requirements are academic achievement and good character demonstrated
via integrity, industriousness and seriousness of purpose. This year's
recipients are Kerry Blais, Johanna Blanchette, and Micah Torcellini.

- Eleanor K. Lewis Scholarship: Established by former pupils, neighbors,
and friends in memory of Eleanor K. Lewis, who was a teacher and
principal in Eastford for 34 years. The fund provides scholarships to
Eastford students who demonstrate scholastic ability, good character,
and financial need. This year's recipient is Alexis Laskoski.

- Edith Wheaton Smith Scholarship: Edith Wheaton Smith was a school
teacher in Eastford and then secretary of the Board of Education. The
fund provides scholarships to Eastford students in good academic
standing who will pursue any course of study at an accredited two- or
four-year institution or other accredited institution. This year's
recipients are Braden Ayer, Meadow Bulan, Hunter Larson, and Isaac
Torcellini.

- Town of Eastford General Scholarship: Provides scholarships to benefit
high school seniors residing in the Town of Eastford, who are pursuing
post-secondary education. This year's recipient is Alexis Laskoski.

- Emil Vaida Scholarship: Emil Vaida began his education in the one room
Phoenixville School. He greatly valued education and earned many
degrees. The fund provides scholarships for students from Eastford. This
year's recipient is Alexis Laskoski.

- Ethel Cushing Gardner Scholarship: The Ethel Cushing Gardner
Scholarship is awarded to students who reside in the Town of Eastford
and have a serious interest in the study of music. This year's
recipients are Isaac Torcellini and Micah Torcellini.


Ten Eastford students recently earned a variety of scholarships from the
Hartford Foundation and the Community Foundation of Eastern Connecticut.
From left, Isaac Torcellini, Hunter Larson, Kerry Blais, Anna
Kellermann, Johanna Blanchette, Linnea Barlow, and Meadow Bulan. Not
pictured, Micah Torcellini, Alexis Laskoski, and Braden Ayer.

![several college-aged people posing in front of a brick wall](/assets/images/34-1-scholarship-group-1.jpg)
*Adam Minor photo*