---
title: <i>The Communicator</i> Announces Shift to Monthly Publication
author: Arthur Brodeur, Editor-in-Chief
layoutNumber: 1
---

EASTFORD --- The Board of Directors of *The Eastford Communicator* LLC
is pleased to announce that, with this August 2025 issue, *The Eastford
Communicator* will become a monthly publication.

The decision to increase the frequency of publication of *The Eastford
Communicator* from bi-monthly to monthly comes after much consideration
on the part of the Board and is the result of a number of positive
occurrences which have recently come to pass. These include a
continuation of the town government's $5,000 operating support funding,
a significant increase in one-time monetary donations, ever-increasing
advertiser interest, positive community feedback evidenced in surveys,
conversation and communications; the dedication of many volunteers whose
efforts to publish each issue range from ad sales through banking and
accounting, stewardship, and maintaining a website and other social
media venues and outlets; and the critical, and satisfying, ability to
provide those of us who live in Eastford with more frequent and more
timely local news coverage.

We urge you to join us in our efforts to assure the sustainability of
*The Eastford Communicator* into the future. There is the obvious need
for donations and advertising and we would welcome more volunteer help
in areas such as grant writing.

The Board has long recognized that publishing bi-monthly meant that
content had to be submitted up to 10 weeks in advance of an event. This
presented a challenge for many of the organizations that submit content.
Advertisers also desire more frequent publication so that they can
announce events closer to the actual dates they occur, or change their
ads more frequently as their business demands.

The rebirth of *The Eastford Communicator* is in part an attempt to
diminish the deterioration of our civic infrastructure, our sense of
community. It is coverage of meetings, town activities, local
businesses, calendar items, vital statistics, town government
proceedings, and the like which are a fabric of our democracy, a fabric
which should not be allowed to fray. We contend that informing the
public provides a foundation for Eastford citizens to be involved in the
community in whatever way they choose. The stronger the foundation upon
which a community is built, the more robust, the more cohesive, the more
enduring that community will be.
