---
title: The Pastor's Pen
author: Timothy Howard Jr.
---

As the days grow a little shorter and the crispness of fall begins to
fill the air, many of us will find ourselves settling back into familiar
routines. The carefree pace of summer gives way to school schedules,
community events, and the quiet turning of the seasons. It is in these
transitional times that we often stop and ask deeper questions ---
questions about life, about purpose, and about where we are headed. And
sometimes, what our hearts are really longing for is a fresh connection
with God.

At Eastford Baptist Church, we believe that church is not just a place
you go to on Sunday. It is a family you belong to. It is a place where
truth is spoken, where grace is offered, and where people walk alongside
one another through the joys and trials of life. Whether you have been
following Jesus for years or are just beginning to ask spiritual
questions, we want to extend to you the same simple invitation that
Jesus gave to His first disciples: "Come and see." (John 1:39)

Each Sunday morning, we gather at 9:15 a.m. for Sunday School. These
small, age-appropriate classes are more than just lessons. They are a
time where kids can ask questions, adults can wrestle with the truths of
Scripture, and everyone can grow together in faith. It is a place for
real people with real lives learning to follow a real Savior. Then at
10:30 a.m., we come together for our weekly Worship Service. In our
beautiful, old sanctuary, you will hear hymns and songs that lift up the
name of Jesus, Scripture that speaks to the heart, and preaching that is
grounded in the Word of God. We do not gather to put on a show. We
gather to meet with the living God and to be reminded of the hope we
have in Christ.

As the week moves on, we meet again each Wednesday night at 6:30 p.m.,
beginning Sept. 3. Our "Olympians" ministry (a kids club for grades 1-6)
is full of laughter, games, Bible memory, and creative ways to learn
about Jesus. Teen Club (grades 7--12) offers students a place to wrestle
with truth, build friendships, and discover what it means to live for
Christ in today's world. For adults, we offer both a Discipleship Class
and Prayer Meeting, which is a space for spiritual growth and
intercession. Finally, our Women's Bible Study provides a warm and
encouraging environment for women to dig deeper into Scripture and
support one another in life and faith.

In all of this, our desire is simple --- that people in our town would
come and see the goodness of the Lord, that they would experience the
love of Christ through His Word and His people. You're not just invited
to attend --- you're invited to belong. There's a place for you here.

So, if your soul feels dry, if your family needs encouragement, or if
you\'re simply curious, "come and see." We would be honored to welcome
you.
