---
title: "From the Eastford Independent Fire Company #1, Inc."
---
It all began in December 1917 with a major fire on Sumner Hill Road,
followed shortly by more major fires in January 1918. These events
caused a great deal of concern about protecting our town. On May 22,
1939, a committee of the town's concerned citizens decided that Eastford
needed some fire protection.

On April 7, 1942, it was determined there was enough interest to form a
fire department. At the May 5, 1942 meeting, the records showed that 41
men were designated Charter Members. Fast forward to June 3, 2025 ---
and 83 years later, the EIFC may be small in membership numbers, but we
are "EIFC STRONG" in dedication, commitment and training. Happy
Birthday, EIFC!

Tuesday, June 3 was our annual dinner/business meeting celebrating our
83rd birthday, followed by election of officers to serve from 2025-2027.
They are as follows:

Chief: Doug Beaudoin

Deputy Chief: James Roy

Captain: Gordon Spink

Captain: Dave Jakubowski

EMS Lieutenant: Steve Kitson

President: James Roy

Vice President: Jeannine Spink

Board of Directors, Members-at-Large: Zac Bertram, Dennis Desaulnier,
Lincoln Budd

A service pin was presented to Jeannine Spink marking 40 years of active
service to the EIFC.

The department responded 27 times in March, 13 times in April, and 21
times in May. Recordkeeping, started in 1975, showed 43 responses to
fires. In 2024, the department responded to 240 fires and medical
emergencies.

Seventy fire department flags were installed at the Grove Cemetery, plus
three in Ashford, and four in Southbridge (MA) honoring firemen, fire
police, EMS, and Ladies Auxiliary who have passed.

On May 10, the EIFC held an Open House in conjunction with Experience
Eastford. Members marched or drove trucks in the Memorial Day Parade on
May 26.

On June 12, the Eastford School Citizenship Award, sponsored by the
department in its 65th year was presented to Allie Beausoleil. The
criteria for this recognition are for a graduate who demonstrates
leadership, respect for school and community rules, involvement in
school and community affairs. Congratulations, Allie!

Be prepared for heat emergencies --- hydrate, hydrate, hydrate!
Excessive heat emergencies have caused more deaths than other weather
events. Heat waves are a prolonged period of excessive heat, combined
with high humidity. Generally, temperatures are 10 degrees or more above
the average high. What happens to the body as a result of exposure to
extreme heat? The body's temperature control system is overloaded. The
body cools itself by sweating, then stops. Very high body temperatures
may damage the brain and/or other organs. What is dehydration? Heavy
sweating with extreme thirst, dry cracked lips, gray, pale, cool skin,
anxious, irritable, restless. Treatment is very simple --- provide
plenty of fluids and encourage drinking often to maintain hydration.

Heat emergencies have three categories:

- Heat Cramps -- Painful muscular cramps produced by heavy sweating and
loss of body salts.
- Heat Exhaustion: Mild shock caused by excess high body temperature
from exertion or hot environment -- weakness, dizziness, heavy sweating.
- Heat Stroke -- A potentially fatal rise in body temperature due to
internal heat regulation failure. A person is not sweating. The common
denominator of the three heat emergencies is to hydrate and evacuate to
cooler areas. Call 911!

![a group of people in uniforms in front of fire trucks](/assets/images/34-1-eifc-annual-meeting.jpg)
Front row: Alex Kowalchuk, Rick Torgeson, Jennifer Willich, Jeannine
Spink, John Paquin, and Lincoln Budd. Back row, from left, Dennis
Desaulnier, John Lynch, Marvin Neely, Doug Beaudoin, James Roy, Gordon
Spink, Steve Kitson, Dave Jakubowski, Zac Bertram, and Wil Spink. 
*Courtesy photo*


*- Submitted by Jeannine Spink, Veteran Member*