---
title: In the Garden
author: Susan Burns
---

Here's what to do in the high summer in the garden:

No drastic pruning. Spring-flowering shrubs should have been pruned
within four weeks post-bloom.

Wait until after mid-August to divide and transplant fall and spring
flowering plants.

Avoid planting anything in hot sun. Wait for a cooler, overcast day or
do it later in the day.

Bearded Iris should be divided and transplanted in July, every three to
four years.

Deadhead spent blooms throughout the summer --- both annuals and
perennials. In July, encourage late summer/fall rebloom by cutting back
perennials. Salvias, Heucheras, and Columbine love this. Cut right back
to the ground.

It's best and easiest to weed when the soil is damp. Try not to step on
the soil while it's damp as it can compact the ground around the plants.
Try to reach into your beds to weed. Most plants can be added to your
compost bin. However, don't compost seedheads of weeds. Throw weeds in
the trash.

If it hasn't rained, water deeply. Soak established plants once a week
to reach deep into the root zone. About 1-2 inches of water a week is
best. Try to water the soil and not the leaves of the plants. Don't let
container plants sit in water. Underwatered plants are better than
overwatered plants.

Generally, don't fertilize in summer. Exceptions are roses, butterfly
bush, and repeat-blooming plants and vegetables. You do need to
fertilize containers because you must supply all of their needs.

Handpick Japanese Beetles in early morning. Put them in a jar of water.
If you stop feeding the birds from March to November, they will eat many
of your insects and worms.

Keep your vegetable garden free of weeds or diseased foliage.

Stake and tie up tall plants. Keep tomato vines off the ground. Mulch
them at the base to prevent splash onto the foliage. Even moisture on
tomatoes prevents cracking and splitting as they ripen.

Keep bird baths clean. You can use a mosquito dunk to prevent mosquito
breeding.

Keep your compost pile moist.

Take some time to sit and enjoy your garden.
