---
title: From the Superintendent
author: Donna Leake
---

Before embracing the new year, I want to first reflect on last year and
thank you for your support for the budget that passed on June 4. Because
of this support, we will continue to provide quality educational
programming for all our students.

I also want to thank our staff for their tremendous dedication to the
students. I continue to be impressed by the passion and hard work of our
staff. However, they do not achieve success alone. I would be remiss not
to celebrate the support of Eastford families for their children and our
staff.

The first day for students will be Aug. 27. If you are new to Eastford,
please be sure to contact the Eastford Elementary School office to
register your children, including those of high school age, as soon as
possible. Details concerning the registration process, and other
important school and district information, including the 2025-26 school
calendar, as well as current district and school policies, can be found
on our district/school website, [www.eastfordct.org](https://www.eastfordct.org/). In addition,
families with students attending Eastford Elementary School will be
receiving a letter from Principal McCombe filled with many important
details about the beginning of the school year. All Eastford high school
students can best access information regarding their schools on their
respective high school websites.

EASTCONN will once again be providing school bus transportation services
for our students. As we move closer to the start of school, information
will be provided by the school and on the website that will provide
families with information on how you can access bus routes and
additional transportation information.

We have contracted with the Hale YMCA out of Putnam to run our Before
and After School childcare programs for the 2025-2026 school year. All
registrations and fees for service will be conducted through the YMCA,
not the Eastford Elementary School main office. The Before and After
School Child Care Services will not begin until Sept. 2. In recent
years, we were able to support the cost of after-school programming for
students in grades K-8 with funds provided by an after-school grant
award. We have applied once again for this competitive funding grant but
do not currently know if we are successful in obtaining it. The YMCA has
several ways that it provides financial assistance to families,
including a sliding fee scale based on family size and income, financial
scholarships through the YMCA, and Care for Kids. If you have questions
about their program or their fees, you can reach out to Veronica at the
Hale YMCA at (860) 315-9622, ext. 4105.

A significant change this school year is that one of our long-standing
parent groups, the School Readiness Council, will be replaced by a Local
Governance Partnership (LGP). The Office of Early Childhood, through new
state legislation, has restructured funding and organizations that
support early childhood in Connecticut under a new label, Early Start
CT. Early Start CT is designed to bring information and resources to
communities to support children ages birth to five years old. The
Eastford community has joined a Local Governance Partnership (LGP) with
the other northeastern communities of Bozrah, Chaplin, Franklin,
Hampton, Scotland, and Sprague. Together, this LGP will make decisions
and provide information to communities to support programs like the
Eastford Preschool Program. It is important to note that the Eastford
Preschool Program is not a public-school program. It is its own entity
under the jurisdiction of the Office of Early Childhood. We are
fortunate to be able to house the preschool program in the Elementary
School so that the children can also benefit from other resources
provided by the Board of Education. As the LGP becomes organized over
the summer months, we will be reaching out with opportunities for parent
and community involvement.

The Board of Education will meet on Aug. 21, at 6 p.m. in the Eastford
School Library. Students who received scholarships from the Hartford
Foundation and the Community Foundation of Eastern Connecticut have been
invited to attend in-person or virtually to be recognized for their
accomplishments.

As always, you are invited to contact me at <dleake@eastfordct.org> if you
have questions or concerns and/or would like to schedule an appointment.
