---
title: From the First Selectman
author: Deb Richards
---

As we close out the fiscal year, I want to take a moment to extend my
heartfelt thanks to all the employees and volunteers who serve the Town
of Eastford. Your dedication and hard work throughout the year are what
keep our community running smoothly and effectively for all residents.
Thank you for your continued commitment.

We are pleased to announce that Eastford has a new Municipal Veteran
Representative. After many years of dedicated service, Jennifer Willich
has stepped down from her role as Municipal Veteran Agent. We are
grateful for her time, effort, and devotion to supporting the veterans
of Eastford.

Please join us in welcoming Garry Brown as our new Municipal Veteran
Representative. Garry will be available at the Town Office Building
(lower level) on the first Tuesday of each month from 3:30 to 5 p.m. He
can assist veterans and their families with questions about VA benefits,
healthcare, military records or medals, disability compensation, and the
Soldiers, Sailors, and Marines Fund. Appointments are preferred, but
walk-ins are welcome. These services are provided at no cost, and all
conversations are strictly confidential. Garry can be reached at
860-928-2309 or <garry.brown71@aim.com>.

Looking ahead, on Sept. 13, Eastford will host a Liberty Tree Dedication
in honor of the 250th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of
Independence. This event is being held in collaboration with Mark
Sheldon, CT President of the Sons of the American Revolution, and
Eastford Elementary School. A full uniformed color guard will be present
for the dedication of a Liberty Tree and granite plaque, which will be
installed behind the school. For event updates and additional details,
please visit the Town's website, [www.eastfordct.gov](https://www.eastfordct.gov/), and [our official
Facebook page - Town of Eastford, CT](https://www.facebook.com/townofeastfordct).
