---
title: Transfer Station Fees Hiked Again
author: Adam Minor
---
EASTFORD --- You may have noticed a bit of déjà vu at the Transfer
Station this past month, as the cost of a Transfer Station sticker has
risen once again --- from $100 to $120.

The hike, which was made effective for the 2025-26 fiscal year, was
recommended by the town's Transfer Station Committee, and approved by
the Board of Selectmen, at their May 5 meeting, according to minutes
obtained from the town's website.

The new fee comes only one year after selectmen increased the cost of
the sticker (which essentially acts as a one-year pass) from $60 to
$100, making the new fee exactly double what it was only two years ago.
Stickers expire every July 31, and are typically sold throughout the
month of July at the Transfer Station during normal operating hours
(Saturdays and Sundays, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Wednesdays from 1-3
p.m.), then at the Town Office Building after that.

According to minutes from the May 5 meeting, this was not the only
change made to the Transfer Station's processes. On top of the price
hike, selectmen also voted to implement tire punch cards for disposal of
four tires, which will be included with each transfer station sticker
issued, as well as implementing the sale of additional tire punch cards
for $20 each for four tires. They also voted to implement a one-time
use pass per household if necessary for residents who do not have a
Transfer Station permit, for $25 each. Additionally, selectmen voted to
"stress" that Transfer Station permit stickers be affixed to the
vehicle's windshield, and to implement a lost sticker fee for
replacement stickers (with the exception of replacements issued with
proof of a new windshield or new vehicle).

In a conversation with the *Communicator* last year, First Selectman Deb
Richards said she understood that price hikes are unpopular, but
asserted that the initial hike from $60 to $100 was made to bring
"balance" to rising costs and dwindling revenues from textiles,
electronics, and appliances.

When reached for comment over this most recent hike, Richards confirmed
that rising costs continued to be the issue.

"The costs for all services regarding waste disposal have increased,"
Richards said. "This includes increases in cost for removal of municipal
waste, household trash, tire removal, hazardous waste, and bulky waste."

Other nearby towns, Richards noted, either do not have bulky waste
removal, or an outside contractor is hired for occasional removal of
bulky waste. Or, they charge per item for disposal at transfer stations.
Richards added that staffing hours have been increased to better monitor
transfer station activity.

"Some towns hire an outside contractor for municipal solid waste (MSW)
and include the fee in with taxes. The homeowner would then need to find
an alternative method to dispose of bulky waste, tires, electronics,
mattresses or motor oil, since they are not included with the contracted
pickup of household trash," Richards said. "Eastford Transfer Station
permits include all services for $120 annually."

Even at $120, taking a look at fees in surrounding towns, it seems
Eastford is still a deal, objectively. In nearby Woodstock, for example,
according to information provided on the town's website, the Woodstock
Transfer Station charges $220 a year for a single-family household,
which includes only one permit (Eastford issues two).

In Pomfret, their Transfer Station closed years ago, but offers
residents permits in Woodstock and Brooklyn. The Woodstock permits are
only available to 50 residents at $270 per permit, and with only three
planned bulky waste disposal events throughout the year. The Town of
Brooklyn also opens their transfer station to outside residents on a
"pay as you go" basis. Bags are purchased for disposal of household
trash and a large number of bulky-type items are accepted at varying
fees per item. Comparatively, trash pickup services by Casella Waste
Systems in Willimantic can cost more than $100 quarterly, not including
bulky waste, and other services employed by a transfer station.
