**From the Eastford Independent Fire Company**

**Jeannine Spink**

Monthly emergency responses are rising steadily (August, 18; September,
15). From Jan. 1, 2024 to Oct. 31, we have responded to 199 emergencies.
In 2023, we responded 237 times. We anticipate surpassing the 237
responses by Jan. 1, 2025.

September and October were months for continued mandatory testing on all
hoses and ground ladders. Testing of hoses verifies that the hose can
still safely operate under pressure. Testing of ground ladders ensure
that a ladder will be safe to use in compliance with NFPA standards of
use, maintenance and service.

Drills are scheduled every Wednesday evening at the firehouse. During
September and October, drills consisted of injuries relative to hunting
accidents due to falls and improper use of hunting equipment, brush
fires, EMS patient removal from vehicles, ladders and chimney fires in
addition to monthly business meeting, truck checks, and Line Officers.

Fire Prevention Week was celebrated with the annual visit to the EES,
where the firemen wore their turnout gear, showed a video, talked about
creating escape plans, looked through the trucks and got a "goodie bag."

A reminder that it is time to test the operation and change batteries on
your smoke and carbon monoxide detectors. If you have a working
fireplace, woodstove or pellet stove, have it checked and cleaned by a
professional.

With carbon monoxide poisoning in mind, everyone should be aware that
carbon monoxide is invisible. The colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas
is a byproduct of burning organic fuels. Sources of carbon monoxide
include household appliances and equipment fueled with gas, oils, coal,
kerosene or wood. Examples of sources include furnaces, water heaters,
space heaters, cars, charcoal grills, clothes dryers, ovens, fireplaces,
lawn mowers, snow blowers and motor-powered recreational vehicles.
Causes of carbon monoxide include malfunctioning appliances or
equipment, worn or faulty parts, and improper venting. Early symptoms of
carbon monoxide poisoning often mimic the flu, i.e., headache, nausea,
unclear thinking, shortness of breath, weakness and loss of muscle
control. Severe symptoms can be convulsions, unconsciousness and
possible death. Animals can simultaneously exhibit flu-like symptoms.
Carbon monoxide replaces the oxygen in blood causing the body to poison
itself by cutting off the oxygen that is needed by organs and cells. To
prevent CO poisoning, install carbon monoxide detectors, clean and
inspect fuel-burning appliances. Check for proper ventilation. Follow
the manufacturer's instructions for installation and use in your home.
If you suspect carbon monoxide poisoning, leave your home right away, do
not open windows or doors and call 911. The EIFC will test the house to
determine the source of the carbon monoxide.

The holidays and cooking are right around the corner. Share these fire
safety resources to help families enjoy safe holidays One-quarter of
home decoration fires happen in December. Choose decorations that are
flame resistant or flame retardant. Replace any string of lights that
has worn or broken cords or loose bulb connections. If entertaining,
test your smoke/carbon monoxide alarms and establish the best escape
routes. Stay in the kitchen when cooking on the stovetop. Put a lid on
grease fires to smother the flames. If a fire starts in the oven, turn
off the heat and keep the door closed to deprive the fire of oxygen. If
your clothes catch on fire, stop, drop, roll on the ground, and cover
your face. Never burn charcoal indoors. It can give off lethal amounts
of carbon monoxide. If you are using synthetic logs, always follow the
directions on the package. Never break a synthetic log apart to quicken
the fire or use more than one log at a time. Research other on-line
suggestions to make your home fire safe so you can have a warm,
worry-free winter.

Guess who's coming to dinner? Don't let it be the fire department! Happy
Holidays!
