**From the First Selectman**

**Deb Richards**

Governor Ned Lamont signed early voting legislation in May 2023. This
piece of legislation became effective for any elections after Jan. 1,
2024. The legislation, Public Act 23-5, requires 14 days of early voting
for general elections, seven days of early voting for most primaries,
and four days of early voting for special elections and presidential
preference primaries. This will apply to elections and primaries that
occur on or after Jan. 1, 2024. Every municipality in the state will be
required to establish at least one early voting location and has the
option of establishing more.

Connecticut is one of the last states in the nation to adopt a system of
early voting. Now that Governor Lamont has signed this bill, the only
states that do not permit early voting are Alabama, Mississippi, and New
Hampshire. All other states allow it.

The bill passed the House of Representatives on May 4, 2023, on a
bipartisan vote of 107-35, with nine people absent. It passed in the
Senate on May 31, 2023, on a bipartisan vote of 27-7, with two people
absent.

With early voting in place, the Town Registrars, along with the
moderator, needed to be present for seven days prior to the primary in
August, and 14 days prior to the presidential election. Some of the
mandated hours resulted in registrars working 16-hour days. Registrars
Kathy Healey and Toni Doubleday organized and recruited poll workers to
assist during early voting and on Election Day. Moderator Bob Willams
also worked long days to ensure this election process went smoothly for
Eastford voters. Constables Chris Bowen, Randal Chinnock, and Arvind
Shaw provided a reassuring presence throughout the day.

There was a small glitch with one of the tabulators resulting in late
reporting of Eastford numbers, but the numbers were reported, and all
your votes were counted.

Early voting comes with a cost, which will be reflected in next year's
budget. There was a small supplement for salaries from the state this
year, but with the increase in hours comes an increase in the salaries
we need to pay registrars, moderator, and the poll workers. This
increase will be reflected in next year's budget.

Kudos to our Registrars and a big thank you to everyone who helped at
the polls to make early voting and Election Day a big success in
Eastford!

If you would like to get involved in helping your town, join a committee
or commission and make a difference!

• Senior Citizens Committee --- Michelle Palulis,
michele\@attorneypalulis.com

• Inlands Wetlands Committee --- landuse\@eastfordct.gov

• Planning --- landuse\@eatfordct.gov

• Conservation and Historic Preservation --- Roger Wolfe,
emily.heyse\@eastfordct.com

• Recreation Commission --- recofeastford\@gmail.com or
mltmoran\@gmail.com

• Transfer Station Committee --- christine.hustus\@eastfordct.gov

• Bowens Field Committee --- emily.heyse\@eastfordct.gov

• Emergency Management --- deborah.richards\@eastfordct.gov

Wishing you and yours a happy holiday season!
