CUTLINE: *Courtesy photo*

State Sen. Jeff Gordon was re-elected to another term last month in the
General Election, defeating challenger Marry Garrett (D).

HEAD:

Town election results echo national tallies, substantial voter turnout
touted

BY ADAM MINOR

MANAGING EDITOR

EASTFORD --- Regardless of where you fall on the political spectrum,
last month's General Election (Nov. 5) was an important day in the
history of the United States, as the country tallied their votes for
several offices, ranging from the President of the United States, to
more local offices like State House of Representatives and State Senate.
On the national level, Donald J. Trump was elected to a non-consecutive
second term as President, while incumbent GOP State Sen. Jeff Gordon was
victorious over Democratic challenger Merry Garrett.

The following results were submitted to the Communicator from by Town
Clerk Johanna Wolfe.

Party key is as follows: Democrat (D); Republican (R); Working Families
Party (WFP); Independent (I); Green (G); Libertarian (L); Cheaper Gas &
Groceries Party (CGGP); Petitioning Candidate (P); Write-In (WI).

**Question \#1: Shall the Constitution of the State be amended to permit
the General Assembly to allow each voter to vote by absentee ballot?**

Yes: 413

No: 432

**President of the United States**

Kamala Harris and Tim Walz (D): 445

Donald Trump and J.D. Vance (R): 599

Jill Stein and Butch Ware (G): 5

Chase Oliver and Mike ter Maat (L): 7

Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Nicole Shanahan (P): 12

**United States Senator**

Christopher S. Murphy (D): 413

Matthew M. Corey (R): 565

Christopher S. Murphy (WFP): 35

Justin C. Paglino (G): 6

Robert Finley Hyde (CGGP): 18

**Unites States Representative**

Joe Courtney (D): 484

Mike France (R): 562

**State Senator (35th Senate District)**

Merry C. Garrett (D): 388

Jeff Gordon (R): 651

**State Representative (50th House District)**

Pat Boyd (D): 621

According to Wolfe, out of Eastford's 1,250 registered voters, a total
1,073 showed up to the polls to cast a vote, a staggering 85.84% voter
turnout. This includes those that voted early, those that voted on Nov.
5 in person, absentee ballots, and same-day registration.

In Eastford's only local contested race, incumbent GOP Sen. Jeff Gordon
was re-elected overall in the district (which consists of Ashford,
Chaplin, Coventry, Eastford, a part of Ellington, Hampton, Pomfret,
Stafford, Tolland, Union, Vernon, Willington, and Woodstock), with a
tally of 28,613 (53%) to Democratic challenger Merry Garrett's 25,453
votes (47%) according to WFSB. Gordon declared victory in the early
morning hours of Wednesday, Nov. 6, and in a press release sent to the
*Communicator* that day, Gordon expressed his gratitude for being chosen
by the district to the Senate.

"I am honored to be re-elected as the State Senator for the 35th
District," he said. "Wow! Thank you to the people for the opportunity to
continue working as your State Senator. I appreciate that they saw
through the intense negativity thrown at me and recognized the positive
campaign that I ran on the substance of the issues important to us all.
Working together matters. Listening to people matters. Working for
people matters. Getting good things done matters. Integrity and
character matter. Common sense matters. I am here to represent everyone,
something that I take seriously. Today, I continue my ongoing work as
your State Senator. I look forward to it. I have faith in Connecticut,
and I have faith in our communities. Again, thank you for re-electing me
as your State Senator.\"
