**The Pastor's Pen**

**Timothy Howard Jr.**

**Eastford Baptist Church**

As we move from Thanksgiving into the busy holiday season, it's easy to
let the spirit of gratitude fade away. While Christmas decorations go up
and shopping lists grow, it can feel like Thanksgiving was just a brief
pause before the holiday rush. But the spirit of Thanksgiving is
something we ought to carry with us every day, not just once a year. The
Bible calls us to maintain a grateful heart, regardless of the season.
In 1 Thessalonians 5:18, Paul writes, "Give thanks in all circumstances;
for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you."

Therefore, gratitude isn't just a momentary feeling. It is a discipline
that helps us see God's hand at work in every part of our lives. For
those of us here in our close-knit, Eastford community, we have many
blessings to remember and celebrate. When we pause to reflect on
Thanksgiving, we often think of family, friends, health, and the gift of
a peaceful, supportive community that does so much to care for and show
love to one another, especially at this time of the year. These
blessings aren't confined to a single day in November; they are gifts to
be cherished year-round.

With Christmas approaching, it's easy to get caught up in the busyness
of shopping, decorating, and preparing. But if we keep our Thanksgiving
spirit alive, we also prepare our hearts to fully celebrate Christmas.
We remember that the holiday season isn't about rushing from one
celebration to another --- it's about recognizing the greatest gift of
all, Emmanuel (Isaiah 7:14), or "God with us". When we carry a heart of
gratitude into Christmas, we approach the season with joy and a deeper
appreciation for what it truly means.

So, this year, as we move from one season to the next, let's remember to
slow down, savor the moments, and keep thanking God for His many
blessings. As it says in Psalm 136:1, "Give thanks to the Lord, for He
is good. His love endures forever." Let's continue to keep Thanksgiving
alive, not just in our words, but in our hearts, and in the way we live
every day. May the peace and gratitude of Thanksgiving be a foundation
that helps us truly appreciate the wonder of Christmas.

That said, I would like to personally invite you to join us at Eastford
Baptist Church (133 Union Rd.) for our Children's Christmas Pageant
taking place Sunday, Dec. 8, at 10:30 a.m., and then to one of the most
beautiful services of the year, our Christmas Eve Candlelight Service,
taking place Tuesday, Dec. 24, at 4 p.m.

Blessings!
