**COMMUNICATOR CONVERSATIONS**

HEAD: Ball debuts as new library director

SUB HEAD: 'I've been welcomed with open arms'

JUMP HEAD: Ball looking forward to tenure as town's library director

BY ADAM MINOR

MANAGING EDITOR

EASTFORD --- Katie Ball has always loved to read. As it turns out, that
love of reading has manifested itself into a new role as the director of
the Eastford Public Library. Ball officially started on Oct. 22, and
since then, she has been both learning and leading as she has been
acclimating to her new job.

Ball has been a resident of Eastford for the past four years, previously
living in Brooklyn and Killingly. She has two daughters, fourth-grader
Rory, 9, and first-grader Reese, 6.

The *Communicator* sat down with Ball last month to talk about getting
her feet wet at the library, her background, what being library director
means to her, and her plans for the library moving forward.

**First of all, thank you for taking the time to sit down with me today!
Let's start with the most obvious question. How did this opportunity to
become library director come about?**

"I just have fallen in love with Eastford. I used to go to the West
Woodstock Library a lot because my sister is from there. I was like, 'I
love the library so much, I really should be at the Eastford library.'
Jennifer \[John\] had just started, and my friend and I came down for
Story Time \[about five years ago\]. We fell in love with Miss Jennifer.
They had Story Time, but it wasn't very popular. When I came, they said,
'We do story time but nobody ever comes.' I said, 'We have to change
that.' We started to come every week, and it just grew from there. It
has really just skyrocketed. Miss Jennifer just does a great job. She's
really gotten a lot of people to come, which has created more programs
within the library."

**So, your involvement started with Story Time?**

"Yes! It started with Story Time. I love Miss Jennifer and \[former
Library Director\] Mrs. \[Elizabeth\] Platt. My kids love the library.
My oldest is an avid reader --- always has a book in her hand. We live
in Eastford. It takes five minutes to get to school. But she always has
to have a book. She's always reading!"

**That's good!**

"Yes, it's great. We were always at the library. Then the Friends of the
Library started \[in October 2023\]. I was Vice President of that. In
the meantime, I was substituting at the West Woodstock Library, just on
Saturdays when they needed us. I have always loved the library. Then
unfortunately, Mrs. Platt resigned. I thought, 'This might be a long
shot. But, let's do it.' I've been a stay-at-home mom since COVID, my
kids are getting big, and it's the perfect part-time position, right
next to the school. I just love it here."

**It seems like this opportunity became a natural fit for you. What was
the application process like?**

I applied in August for it. The \[Library Board of Trustees\] has to
interview you, and the Board of Selectmen make the ultimate choice.
There were other candidates. I only have my associate's degree. I've
substituted, but \[libraries are\] not my background. I'm sure there
were more qualified candidates, but I think when you come from a small
town like this, it's more than just a degree. I think people want
someone from town. I think there's so much more to it than a degree. I
think maybe they took a chance on me, but I think I can do it!"

**What do you think they saw in you to do this?**

"I think there may be a misconception that all librarians need to be
'older.' I think they liked that I am younger and that I plan to be here
for a long time, that I have children in the school system, and that I
know what the town needs. I want to lead them into the future. I'm not
just here for five years and then going to retire."

**So, you think the board saw you as the longer-term solution?**

"Absolutely. But I think more importantly, I think they can just tell I
love the library."

**Where do you think that love of the library comes from?**

"I always went to the library as a child. I grew up in Brooklyn, not too
far from here, and I've always loved reading. I see that a lot in my
oldest. She's a bookworm. I think I just love that for her, because \[a
love of reading and books\] is just not promoted enough. There should be
a love of books. People say, 'I can just get that on my Kindle.' I'm
like, 'Don't you just want to hold the book in your hands?' There's just
something so special about being in the library, it's just nostalgic for
me."

**As a fan of print media, I can't agree more. There's something special
about holding a physical book. I guess I'm kind of old school that
way!**

"I completely agree. I love that books can bring people together.
There's something great about reading a book and sharing it with others.
It's an interesting relationship you can create through books. I think
it's just great."

**The power of the imagination seems to be a fading thing these days.**

"Absolutely. That's why when a book is made into a movie --- I ask my
daughter this --- watching 'Harry Potter' for example, 'Did you like the
book better than the movie?' Sometimes, when you read a book before a
movie --- which you should always do in my opinion --- you create that
world in your mind, so that when you watch that movie, sometimes you are
disappointed. It's just different."

**By the way, the 'Harry Potter' books are way better than the movies,
and you can fight me on that one!**

"Absolutely! I agree!"

**Speaking of imagination, with books, you can picture what it looks
like in your head, but that picture can be different depending on who is
reading. Everyone can picture it and imagine it in a different way. They
will interpret it, and be emotionally affected by it in different ways.
The subjectivity of reading is a really interesting thing.**

"Yes, and I feel like children who are involved so heavily with devices
are losing their imaginations. It's so sad, because technology has great
things, but it also makes our kids grow up way too fast. They're missing
out on so much."

**As we sit here, you've been the director for about two weeks. Have you
seen many people come through yet? How have you been doing in getting to
know people? There must be a learning process to all of this.**

"Thankfully, I've been a part of the library here for a long time. I do
know a lot of the patrons already. There are definitely a lot of
families, and I've been meeting more and more of the older patrons.
Their first question is usually, 'Where do you live?'"

**Ah, yes! It's the age-old question. Are you "one of us"?**

"Exactly! I live in Eastford! All joking aside though, I do have to say,
everyone has been very welcoming, very kind, and very excited. It's been
very heartwarming how nice and genuine people are. It really is."

**Unfortunately --- and please, correct me if you see this differently
--- but it seems as though libraries have seemed to wane in popularity
over the years. First, do you agree with this? And second, how do you
keep the library relevant in 2024 and beyond?**

"I think that's a huge fear for some people, right? That's the question.
How do you keep the library relevant? To answer the first part of your
question, I do agree, but I think it also depends on where you are. For
example, here in the Quiet Corner, there has been such a huge
homeschooling community. I think \[homeschooling families\] are keeping
libraries relevant by themselves! And that's not even factoring in
everyone else.

**That's a great point. Could you elaborate more on that?**

"There really is a huge homeschooling community, especially since COVID.
A lot of families have chosen to homeschool their kids. When I grew up,
you might have known one family that homeschooled. We can think of many
now. We can keep our library relevant because we do a lot of programs,
and we work with the school. We are just a tight-knit community. I think
of other towns, too --- towns like Putnam, they do a great job. Pomfret,
Woodstock, the list goes on. I think also, the world kind of slowed down
a bit. People were looking for resources to keep their children busy. It
helped in some ways. It helped us slow down."

**Talk more about the relationship between the library and Eastford
Elementary School.**

"Well, the PTO will do three events throughout the year. There's an
Earth Day one, a collaboration on a huge craft. There's a Winter
Wonderland one. It's funny, because sometimes you think something is
really going to be great. And it doesn't always do as well as you plan.
There are so many factors involved. The after-school programs are so
robust. They're always doing something, it's so great sometimes, but
then other times, nobody comes. You just don't know."

**You almost want to just take the shot and take the chance that nobody
comes rather than never plan anything assuming no one will come.**

"Exactly. Even if one kid shows up, it's one kid! It's worth it! You are
making a huge impact. You never know what that impact will be. There are
so many things that kids do in a day, like sports. They're doing all
these things, and sometimes there only are so many hours in the day."

**When you start a position like this, are you looking to do new things
right off the bat? Or is there a learning curve period?**

"I'm learning. It's slow and steady. Miss Jennifer is teaching me a lot.
I know how to do a lot, but even things like ordering books, that's
super fun. I like that. But I'm sort of a control freak. I like order,
so I've been cleaning a lot! What can we clean today? I'm just doing a
lot of organizing. I do have hopes for the future, but who knows what
will come to fruition. I would like to maybe zone in on the homeschool
community. Maybe we can do a science thing that homeschool families can
come to during the day. Maybe we can do a tween book club. We also have
to start thinking about our summer program next year!"

**The Summer Reading Program seems to be one of the major highlights
every year. Is that accurate?**

"Yes, it is. \[We\] take it very seriously. We would love more
participation in that. I found recently that Connecticut does 'The
Governor's Challenge' every summer, and in Eastford there were only 25
or so kids that did it, and they were all through the library. I was
kind of shocked by that. I'm sure kids read books in the summertime, but
maybe they didn't just record it and send it in."

**What are some things that are coming up in the short term? What's on
the docket?**

The Friends of the Library is holding its Holiday Bazaar on Dec. 7. So
hopefully, we will be getting the word out in the *Communicator* about
that!"

**Well, the library has always played a large part in the success of the
*Communicator*, so keep sending us what you have!**

"That's great, because I feel like maybe, to some, we are forgotten
about. If you are a family that loves the library, we are right here in
the center of town. We are kind of like a general store. People might be
lonely and they come in to talk. That's why you just have to come down
to the library!"

**In Dr. Seuss' "Horton Hears a Who," there's a scene where the city on
the 'speck' begins chanting "We are here!' so Horton can hear them and
rescue them. The library seems like it is also saying "We are here!"**

"Right! That's why are very excited that the Friends of the Library came
at the best time. Miss Jennifer needed so much help, and the Friends of
the Library have donated more than 70 hours. Jennifer is only one
person, and can't be everywhere at once. She still continued with all
her programming. Hopefully in the future, they will bring more to the
library."

**Let's talk more about the Friends of the Library and what they do.
What is their role?**

"Sure. They are nonprofit. They are designed solely to support the
library in anything that they need."

**Does that mean covering events with volunteer help?**

"Yes, they do a lot of volunteering. Let's say we are doing a PTO craft,
and we have 20 kids, but we need more hands on deck. We would then ask
the Friends to help us. They are like a backup. It's very helpful. It is
perfect timing, too. They have put a lot of work into it. I think it's
amazing what they have been doing for Eastford. We would love more
people to get involved. I don't think many people know about it. You
guys brought the *Communicator* back because it represents the town. We
also want to bring that sense of community. It's a great thing to see."

**As we close our conversation, what would you say to someone who is
considering coming to the library, or is on the fence about it?**

"People should come to us. If you are looking for something specific, we
are more than happy to try and get it. We want to be able to build
communication and build relationships. Come in and talk to us. Come read
a book. We are here to listen and be that community for people."

**Thank you for taking the time! I'm sure we will be hearing a lot more
from you in the future!**

"I've been welcomed with open arms, and it's been really good. Thank
you!"

*Editor's Note: This conversation has been edited for space constraints.
For more information on the Eastford Public Library, Katie Ball can be
reached at <eastfordpublib@gmail.com>, or by phone at (860) 974-2515.
Periodic updates and calendar entries are also published regularly in
the Eastford Communicator.*
