**Legislative Update**

**State Sen. Jeff Gordon**

Thank you for the trust you have placed in me to be your State Senator
for another term. It is a responsibility I take seriously every day (and
many nights). I will continue my ethic of working for you and working
with you, always using common sense.

I am known to be often out and about all 13 towns of the Senate
district, including Eastford. I continue to do it. I am working on a new
schedule of in-person and virtual office hours, so stay tuned for news
about those. By meeting with you, listening to you, and learning from
you, I can do all that I can do represent you.

Despite the many national news stories of political division and
partisan wrangling, along with much drama and grandstanding, I see every
day that the people of Eastford and the Senate district know that by
working together in a non-political way as a community, we can get good
things done via a common purpose and our shared values. This is how I
get things done in a bipartisan way in the Legislature. I continue to
work in this regard in a positive way in Hartford.

The election in the Senate district sent a clear message that people
like you want elected leaders to do solid work for them, not spread
campaign smears. We must do more to make Connecticut more affordable for
more people, reduce our sky-high electric bills, further cut taxes, make
our communities safer, protect local decision-making of land use zoning
in our towns, defend all our rights and medical freedoms for everyone,
and do what we can do realistically to make a better future for all in
Connecticut. The election is over, and I am excited to continue my work
as your State Senator.

The upcoming legislative session will be action packed. There are many
pressing and big issues for us to attend to, such as crafting a new,
two-year state budget; keeping the state on an even keel with its
spending and financial status; not increasing taxes; paying down the
billions in debt; supporting our towns such as Eastford; stopping the
state from taking control from you about zoning decisions in Eastford;
smartly investing in expanding housing affordability; promoting work
force development; increasing support for public education; creating
wise and affordable energy and climate policies; supporting local health
care services; helping law enforcement, fire services, and emergency
medical services; and much more. There is a lot of work ahead.

I maintain an open-door policy. As always, please reach out to me if I
can help you with a constituent service, answer a question, or take up a
concern. You can call my office at (860) 240-800, e-mail me at
jeffrey.gordon\@cga.ct.gov, check for news and updates at
www.senatorgordon.com, or learn about what I am doing on Facebook at
"Senator Jeff Gordon."

Thank you again for the opportunity to be your State Senator. I look
forward to all we can do together to help Eastford, the Senate district,
and our state.
