---
title: Calendar
---

*Calendar entries must be sent to the editor no later than the 15^th^ of
the month preceding publishing. Please send all calendar content to
[eastfordnews@gmail.com](mailto:eastfordnews@gmail.com). Please limit calendar submissions to less than
100 words.*

## Ongoing

Adult Community Volleyball is held each Monday at 6:30 p.m., at Eastford
Baptist Church, 133 Union Rd., Eastford, CT 06242. Join us for a few
games of casual volleyball! No need to be a professional! Just come and
have some free fun with friends and make new ones! No registration
required.

## December

### Tuesday, Dec. 3

December Awards Ceremony: Lifetime Achievement Awards will be presented
to Mary Ellen Ellsworth, Ralph Yulo Jr., Deb Lee, and Tom DeJohn at the
Eastford Conservation and Historic Preservation Commission's next
monthly meeting on Tuesday, Dec. 3, at 7 p.m., at the Eastford Town Hall
(lower level). These awards will be presented in recognition of their
long service to the Commission. Refreshments will be served. [For more
information about the Commission, please visit the Town of Eastford's
website](https://www.eastfordct.gov/eastford-conservation-historic-preservation-commission)
or visit the [Commission's Facebook Page](https://www.facebook.com/EastfordConservation/).

### Thursday, Dec. 5

Eastford Public Library will host "Storytime" at 11 a.m. on Thursday,
Dec. 5. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play.

The Congregational Church of Eastford announces our annual free Senior
Community Christmas Dinner! Open to Seniors aged 55+ (Caregivers
welcome!). RSVP required before Nov. 29. [Online signup on the church website](http://www.cceastford.org/events/)
(we have
been having trouble with the website, so  [this is a direct link](https://forms.gle/arnWQhME5pLgqXuj7), 
or call (860) 974-0294 with the
names of people in your party. Evangelical Christian Center, 574 Ashford
Center Rd., Ashford, CT (follow the signs on the property), Dec. 5,
11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Doors open at 11:30 a.m. Live entertainment at
noon. Full Dinner to be served at 12:30 p.m.

### Saturday, Dec. 7

Eastford Public Library presents our inaugural Holiday Fair hosted by
the Friends of the Eastford Public Library from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
Members of the Budd family will be on site making wreaths, and local
Della Terra Farm will be taking orders for wreaths and other fresh
Christmas greenery. Please join us for a silent auction, baked goods,
holiday gifts, and so much more.

Don't miss the Recreation Commission's "Cookies and Cocoa with Santa" on
Saturday, Dec. 7, from 2-4 p.m. at the Eastford School. Santa will be
there, live music, crafts and cookies to decorate. Family fun and all
free!

### Sunday, Dec. 8

Eastford Baptist Church will host its annual Children's Christmas
Pageant on Sunday, Dec. 8, during the worship service, which begins at
10:30 a.m. Friends and family are invited to attend as the children
perform Christmas favorites and tell the story of the birth of Jesus
Christ!

Day Kimball's Hospice Tree of Life Ceremony will be held Sunday, Dec. 8,
at 5 p.m. Join us in front of the Ivy Glenn Memorial/Eastford Public
Library for a time of remembrance and tree lighting followed by
refreshments at the church office, 4 County Rd., next to the Post
Office.

December is here already after the warmest fall ever. It is still the
season, however, for
our traditional Lunch with Santa fundraiser scheduled for Sunday, Dec.
8, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Have lunch upstairs in the lodge or just come
for a photo with Santa and avoid the lines at the mall. Made to order
pasta bar, salad, drinks and desserts (gluten free pasta available).
Join us in making holiday crafts, cookies, s'mores and more and shop our
selection of silent auction and raffle items. Tickets available ahead of
time by calling (860) 974-3379, e-mail [registrar@4hcampct.org](mailto:registrar@4hcampct.org) or at the
door. No reservations necessary. Cost is $10 for children up to age 8,
$14 for those 9 and older for lunch, 5 x 7 photo with Santa is $8.
Funds raised support the Jim Logee Campership Fund.

### Wednesday, Dec. 11

Eastford Public Library hosts "Maker's Night" Wednesday, Dec. 11, at 6
p.m. for teens and adults. This month we will be making holiday
ornaments at no cost to our patrons. In addition to crafts, we will also
be hosting a Cookie Exchange. Please sign up for this event. Limit is
12.

### Thursday, Dec. 12

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. on Thursday, Dec.
12. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Saturday, Dec. 14

Eastford Public Library hosts a festive children's craft at 10:30 a.m.
on Saturday, Dec. 14. In the evening, we will have a "Movie & Pizza
Night" where we will showcase a family Christmas classic at 5 p.m.
complete with pizza and a hot cocoa bar. Please register for these
events.

### Tuesday, Dec. 17

Eastford Public Library hosts "Grim Readers Book Club" at 6 p.m. on
Tuesday, Dec. 17. We will be discussing a cozy mystery, "The Christmas
Guest" by Peter Swanson. All are welcome! Copies of this book are
available at the library. Please note this book club meets every other
month on the fourth Tuesday, but due to Christmas Eve, the book club
will meet a week earlier this month.

### Thursday, Dec. 19

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Thursday, Dec. 19.
Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Sunday, Dec. 22

Congregational Church of Eastford will hold its Christmas Pageant on
Sunday, Dec. 22, at 10 a.m. in the Eastford School gym. The Christmas
story right from the Bible -- kids, shepherds, angels, wise men, Mary,
Joseph and baby Jesus, music and a Christmas message of hope and life.
The real deal. Join us!

### Tuesday, Dec. 24

Eastford Baptist Church will hold its annual Christmas Eve Candlelight
Service on Tuesday, Dec. 24, at 4 p.m. Celebrate the Reason for the
season, and join us for a time of singing and worship during one of the
most beautiful services of the year!

Congregational Church of Eastford Christmas Eve by Candlelight, Dec. 24
at 5 p.m., at Eastford School gym. Join us for this beautiful service of
music and Scripture -- the sort memories are made of.

### Saturday, Dec. 28

On Saturday, Dec. 28, visit the Windham-Tolland 4-H Camp Open House from
1-3

p.m. at 326 Taft Pond Rd., Pomfret. Meet the director and other camp
staff, take a

camp tour. Registration materials available. Take advantage of early
bird discounts. Details available at the open house or on [the website](http://www.4hcampct.org).

### Monday, Dec. 30

On Dec. 30, Camper Game Day at the Windham-Tolland 4-H Camp from 9 a.m.
to 3 p.m. for children ages 6-12. Games, food and fun for the kids
during the holiday vacation week from school. Lunch and snacks included
and outdoor gear required as some time will be spent
outside. Admission is $25/child, everyone welcome. Pre-registration
required by

Dec. 22. Call (860) 974-1122 to register or e-mail
[campdirector@4hcampct.org](mailto:campdirector@4hcampct.org)

### Tuesday, Dec. 31

Eastford Public Library hosts a fun New Year's Eve party for kids at 3
p.m. on Tuesday, Dec. 31. Please join us for a countdown to 2025!

## January

### Thursday, Jan. 2

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. on Thursday, Jan.
2. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Wednesday, Jan. 8

Eastford Public Library hosts "Maker's Night" at 6 p.m. on Wednesday,
Jan. 8. This is an adult and teen craft program where we gather together
to create and converse. Come have fun with us!

### Thursday, Jan. 9

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. on Thursday, Jan.
9. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Saturday, Jan. 11

Eastford Public Library hosts the "BBC Book Club" on Saturday, Jan. 11.
Patrons always ask us what "BBC" stands for --- it is a toss-up between
"Bibliophiles and Bibliomaniacs Consortium" and "Brownies, Books and
Chat." All are welcome to attend this multi-genre book club that meets
every other month on the second Saturday at 1 p.m. This month the genre
will be Young Adult, but the title is yet to be determined. Copies of
the book club pick will be on display at the library to check out.

### Thursday, Jan. 16

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. Join us for a
story, craft, snack and time of free play. At 5 p.m. on Thursday, Jan.
16, Friends of the Eastford Public Library will meet for their monthly
meeting. All are welcome to attend.

### Saturday, Jan. 18

Eastford Public Library will host "Dinner and a Movie" for adults at 5
p.m. on Saturday, Jan. 18. Movie to be determined and suggestions
welcome!

### Thursday, Jan. 23

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. on Thursday, Jan.
23. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play.

### Saturday, Jan. 25

Saturday, Jan. 25, 2025: Sno-Ball! Join us from 5-8 p.m. for a family
fun Dinner Dance. Sit down dinner served by our amazing camp cook,
dancing for all ages, door prizes, raffles, family pictures and a whole
lot of fun. This new event is replacing our April 5K. All proceeds
benefit the Jim Logee Campership Fund. Adults, $20; Kids 10 and under,
$15. 326 Taft Pond Rd, Pomfret Center, (860) 974-1122,
[www.4hcampct.org](http://www.4hcampct.org).

Eastford Public Library hosts a "Winter Wonderland Craft & Story" in
collaboration with the Eastford PTO from 10:30 a.m. to 12 p.m. on
Saturday, Jan. 25. You may register through the school or here at the
library.

### Thursday, Jan. 30

Eastford Public Library hosts "Storytime" at 11 a.m. on Thursday, Jan.
30. Join us for a story, craft, snack and time of free play.
