Shorthanded, playoff-bound Bulldogs end regular season with OT win over
Wheeler

NORTH STONINGTON --- The Eastford Bulldogs were missing four players due
to sickness earlier today, and Wheeler Middle School gave them
everything they could handle, but when the final whistle blew after a
fast-and-furious, extra-time period, the Bulldogs came away with a
hard-fought 2-1 victory thanks to an equalizing goal by Charlie
Ellsworth late in the second half, and the OT game-winner by Wes
DePercio.

Before the game even started, the Bulldogs had already locked in the
second seed for the playoffs next week, so the result of the game had no
bearing on the postseason. However, the win came at a much-needed time,
breaking a three-game losing skid and creating a bit of positive
momentum as the Bulldogs look ahead to playoff play.

As for today's game, both teams were deadlocked throughout the first
half, each having several scoring chances, but team defense and solid
goaltending by both squads proved to be enough to secure a scoreless
stalemate at halftime. Wheeler broke through first about 7 minutes into
the second half on a breakaway on the left side, poking the ball past
Eastford goalie Cam Bibeault and going up 1-0. With about 5 minutes left
to go in the game, Bibeault blasted a drop kick after a save, delivering
the ball to a streaking Ellsworth, who managed to get the ball into the
net to tie the game at 1-1, a score that would hold until the whistle
blew to end regulation.

After a scoreless first extra time period, Eastford finally took control
when DePercio, who played the majority of the game at defensive sweeper,
intercepted a ball at midfield, and set up a soaring score from just
outside the box, putting the Bulldogs up for good, 2-1. The goal was
DePercio's team-leading 19th of the season.

Eastford ends the regular season at 8-4 (4-2 at home, 4-2 on the road).
As the second seed in the playoffs, Eastford will host their semifinal
game next Monday, Nov. 4, at Eastford Elementary School, at 3 p.m.,
against third-seeded Thompson Middle School. If the Bulldogs pull off
the win on Monday, they will play the winner of top-seeded Pomfret and
fourth-seeded Canterbury on Thursday, Nov. 7.

ðŸ“· Photos by Adam Minor

**The Schedule at a Glance:**

Tuesday, Sept. 17, @ Parish Hill --- W, 8-1

Thursday, Sept. 19, vs. Ashford --- W, 5-0

Tuesday, Sept. 24, vs. Canterbury --- W, 3-2

Tuesday, Oct. 1, @ Thompson --- W, 1-0 (OT)

Thursday, Oct. 3, vs. Pomfret --- L, 1-7

Tuesday, Oct. 8, vs. Wheeler --- W, 4-1

Thursday, Oct. 10, vs. Parish Hill --- W, 3-2 (OT)

Wednesday, Oct. 16, @ Ashford --- W, 4-1

Thursday, Oct. 17, @ Canterbury --- L, 0-2

Thursday, Oct. 24, vs. Thompson --- L, 0-3

Tuesday, Oct. 29, @ Pomfret --- L, 2-8

Thursday, Oct. 31, @ Wheeler --- W, 2-1 (OT)

**Bulldogs Season Scoring Totals:**

Wes DePercio: 19

Charlie Ellsworth: 6

Aiden Mitchell: 4

Blake Gilbert: 2

Callum St. John: 1

Cam Bibeault: 1

**Total Goals Scored: 33**
