Bulldogs' season ends in heartbreaking, penalty-kick loss to Canterbury

EASTFORD --- As darkness fell at Eastford Elementary School earlier
today, it also signified the end of the season for the Eastford
Bulldogs, as they fell to Canterbury, 2-1, in penalty kicks in the
playoff semifinal --- a dramatic end to a season that featured many
twists and turns.

With a trip to the championship game on the line, both teams came out
aggressive and on the attack. Second-seeded Eastford, coming off a
regular-season finale win against Wheeler last week, was hoping to use
that momentum to build an early lead, but Canterbury was game on
defense, negating the Bulldogs' attack during the first half. Near the
end of the half, Canterbury was able to sneak in a score during a
scramble in front of the goal, to put them up 1-0 as the halftime
whistle blew.

About halfway through the second half, Wes DePercio found paydirt on a
corner kick, blasting the ball off the hands of the goalie and into the
net. The goal was DePercio's 20th of the season, extending his
team-leading total. Both teams had several chances to score, but at the
end of regulation, the score was deadlocked, 1-1.

The same back and forth tension persisted through both 5-minute extra
time periods, as both teams frantically tried to pull ahead --- but at
the end of the two periods, the score was still locked in a 1-1 tie,
moving the game to penalty kicks as darkness began to set in.

It all came down to penalty kicks --- and even then, the game was
decided by the closest of margins. For Eastford, Callum St. John and
Abby Haynes both converted their penalty kicks, but Canterbury was able
to convert three of their five kicks to win the shootout, 3-2, and give
Canterbury the 2-1 win, ending Eastford's season.

Eastford ended the season (both regular and postseason) with an overall
record of 8-5 (4-3 at home, 4-2 on the road). Because they secured the
second seed in the playoffs, they hosted the semifinal game. Canterbury
(the third seed coming into the playoffs) will now play in the finals on
Thursday, Nov. 7, against the winner of top-seeded Pomfret and
fourth-seeded Thompson, the winner of which was not confirmed as of this
posting.

From all of us at the *Communicator*, we want to congratulate the
players and coaching staff on an incredible season!

ðŸ“· Photos by Adam Minor

**The Schedule at a Glance:**

Tuesday, Sept. 17, @ Parish Hill --- W, 8-1

Thursday, Sept. 19, vs. Ashford --- W, 5-0

Tuesday, Sept. 24, vs. Canterbury --- W, 3-2

Tuesday, Oct. 1, @ Thompson --- W, 1-0 (OT)

Thursday, Oct. 3, vs. Pomfret --- L, 1-7

Tuesday, Oct. 8, vs. Wheeler --- W, 4-1

Thursday, Oct. 10, vs. Parish Hill --- W, 3-2 (OT)

Wednesday, Oct. 16, @ Ashford --- W, 4-1

Thursday, Oct. 17, @ Canterbury --- L, 0-2

Thursday, Oct. 24, vs. Thompson --- L, 0-3

Tuesday, Oct. 29, @ Pomfret --- L, 2-8

Thursday, Oct. 31, @ Wheeler --- W, 2-1 (OT)

Monday, Nov. 4 (Playoff Semifinal), vs. Canterbury --- L, 1-2 (OT, 2-3
PK)

**Bulldogs Season Scoring Totals:**

Wes DePercio: 20

Charlie Ellsworth: 6

Aiden Mitchell: 4

Blake Gilbert: 2

Callum St. John: 1

Cam Bibeault: 1

**Total Goals Scored: 34**
