Bulldogs clinch playoff spot, but fall to Pomfret in third consecutive
loss

POMFRET --- The Eastford Bulldogs had reason to celebrate this past
week, as it was announced that the team had clinched a playoff spot,
according to Coach Jennifer Barlow --- a feat reserved for teams with
the top four records in the seven-team division. However, this good news
came amid somewhat of a losing streak for Eastford.

Unfortunately, that trend continued earlier today, as Eastford fell to
Pomfret, 8-2, at Pomfret Community School, in a game that saw Pomfret
score early and often to put the game out of reach.

Only a few minutes into the game, Pomfret got on the board first,
scoring easily off an intercepted Eastford goal kick, making the score
1-0. Minutes later, Pomfret attacked again from the left side, and
scored off a rebound to make it 2-0. After an Eastford hand ball,
Pomfret took the direct kick and drove down to score again, making it
3-0. Almost immediately, Pomfret found themselves up 4-0 off an easy
score from the right side. Two more fast break goals made it 6-0 before
halftime --- however, a penalty in the Pomfret box gave Wes DePercio a
penalty kick opportunity, which he converted to get Eastford on the
board, making it 6-1 in favor of Pomfret as the halftime whistle blew.

Pomfret kept the momentum going in the second half, as about half way
through, they converted off a throw-in from the left side to make it
7-1, and then again on a scramble in front of the goal off a corner
kick, making it 8-1. With about 5 minutes to go, DePercio snuck in a
goal from the top of the box through the goalie's legs to make it 8-2, a
score that would hold until the final whistle. DePercio's goals today
were his 17^th^ and 18^th^ of the season.

With only one game left in the regular season, the Bulldogs are now 7-4
(4-2 at home, 3-2 on the road), and will look to end the regular season
on a high note as they conclude their schedule this Thursday, Oct. 31,
against Wheeler Middle School in North Stonington, at 3:30 p.m. Playoff
seeding and game locations will be announced later this week after the
schedule has concluded. The Bulldogs will play their semi-final game on
Monday, Nov. 4, and if they win that game, they will then play for the
championship on Thursday, Nov. 7. Stay tuned to the Communicator for
more information as it is announced.

ðŸ“· Photos by Adam Minor

**The Schedule at a Glance:**

Tuesday, Sept. 17, @ Parish Hill --- W, 8-1

Thursday, Sept. 19, vs. Ashford --- W, 5-0

Tuesday, Sept. 24, vs. Canterbury --- W, 3-2

Tuesday, Oct. 1, @ Thompson --- W, 1-0 (OT)

Thursday, Oct. 3, vs. Pomfret --- L, 1-7

Tuesday, Oct. 8, vs. Wheeler --- W, 4-1

Thursday, Oct. 10, vs. Parish Hill --- W, 3-2 (OT)

Wednesday, Oct. 16, @ Ashford --- W, 4-1

Thursday, Oct. 17, @ Canterbury --- L, 0-2

Thursday, Oct. 24, vs. Thompson --- L, 0-3

Tuesday, Oct. 29, @ Pomfret --- L, 2-8

Thursday, Oct. 31, @ Wheeler

**Bulldogs Season Scoring Totals:**

Wes DePercio: 18

Charlie Ellsworth: 5

Aiden Mitchell: 4

Blake Gilbert: 2

Callum St. John: 1

Cam Bibeault: 1

**Total Goals Scored: 31**
