---
title: Did You Know?
author: Eastford Historical Society
---

Did you know that the first settler of Eastford was Captain John Perry
of Marlborough, Mass.?

Perry, born in Middlesex County in Massachusetts in 1682, was a post
carrier on the route from Hartford to Boston. In 1710, he purchased 350
acres north of the Stoddard tract lying on both sides of the Still River
in Ashford. He settled on 160 acres in the central part of the purchase
that would become known as Eastford. His house once stood on the east
side of John Perry Road, just south of the Historical Society Museum. In
1718, Perry was one of the founders of the Congregational Church in
Ashford for which he was later granted a special pew in honor of his
service.

In 1722, John Perry was named captain of Ashford's newly formed military
company. At the time, Ashford's residents were fearful of an Indian
presence in the area. Perry was charged with protecting the town from a
possible Indian attack. He established a military watch, a scouting
patrol in the northern part of town, and prepared his company for any
outbreak of hostility.

When Ashford began to divide into the Eastern and Western factions,
Perry became a leading man in Eastern interests. In 1732, he was elected
as the town representative to the General Assembly of the State of
Connecticut.

John Perry died on Feb. 2, 1746. He is buried in the Old Cemetery on
Westford Road. In 1977, the Eastford Historical Society erected a
monument to John Perry, first settler of Eastford, on the grass triangle
across from the Town Office Building.

The Eastford Historical Society wishes you all a Happy Holiday season.
Kindly consider joining the Historical Society, renewing your
membership, or honoring us with a donation during this season of giving.
Your support would be greatly appreciated. Checks may be sent to P.O.
Box 350, Eastford, CT 06242.
