---
title: In the Garden
author: Susan Burns
---

As you observe your yard during this downtime, make notes on where you
need to add something. If you haven't already considered adding shrubs
to your yard that provide interest in winter, your list will help when
deciding what to plant come spring.

The Holly (Ilex) family is one genus, both deciduous and evergreen, that
can provide colorful berries in red, yellow and orange. Not only do they
make the winter landscape pop, they provide excellent food for the birds
during the winter months.

The evergreen Pine (Pinus bungeana) has colorful bark to enjoy during
winter.

The native Witch Hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) flowers when most other
garden shrubs have finished their bloom. As brilliant yellow leaves drop
in the fall, the branches become covered with small yellow flowers that
sustain late season pollinators.

Paperbark Maple (Acer griseum) is a handsome tree with scarlet foliage
in autumn. This tree becomes distinctive and elegant with age, as its
papery sheets of bark peel to reveal cinnamon-brown new bark.

Kousa Dogwood (Cornus Kousa) develops exfoliating patches of tan and
brown bark, which adds to winter beauty when enhanced with layers of
snow.

With the coming of winter, our thoughts turn from the garden to the
house. If we turn to the inside, we have Christmas Cactus, Cyclamen and
Poinsettias to give us color when it's gray outside. There are several
citrus (lemon, lime, and Calamondin orange) plants that smell heavenly
during their bloom time in winter inside the house. You can bring them
outside during the summer. You can purchase small citrus plants at
Logee's Greenhouses in Danielson.

Paperwhite Narcissus bulbs can provide heavily scented white flowers
with very little work. Take a tall jar or vase, place stones in the
bottom. Place your bulbs on top of the stones filling in as many as will
fit but not touching. Add water to the bottom of the bulbs. Soon you
will have flowers for weeks.

Of course, I can't end without mentioning Amaryllis. These can be
purchased very cheaply already placed in soil. Just add water and six
weeks later you will have a flower or two. You can keep Amaryllis for
years and years. Place the container outside in the summer. Water when
needed. Bring them into your basement during winter. Repot when you see
new growth. Water and you will have flowers again.

You can enjoy the pleasure of flowers, ornamental fruit and bark all 12
months of the year, outside and inside, with minimal effort!
