---
title: From the Superintendent
author: Donna Leake
---

It is hard to believe we are already beginning the fourth month of the
"new" school year. Together, our learning community has already
celebrated several successes and overcome many challenges. As we
approach the beginning of a new calendar year, it is important to
commend the staff of Eastford Elementary School for their incredible
commitment to providing the best possible learning environment for all
our students.

December will be a busy month at Eastford Elementary School. Activities
include opportunities for parent teacher conferences, the Scholastic
Book Fair sponsored by the PTO, and the Winter Concert. Please refer to
the monthly [Principal Newsletters located in the For Families section of our webpage](https://www.eastfordct.org/for-families/newsletters/).

At the November Board of Education (BOE) meeting, the administration
presented the District Annual Report, the 2024-25 Leadership Goals and
the updated Eastford Strategic Plan to the BOE. The BOE accepted the
Annual Report, approved the Leadership Goals and plans to review the
Strategic Plan at its December meeting. 
[Copies of these documents can be found on the About Us section of our website](https://www.eastfordct.org/about-us-contact/mission-goals/). The BOE approved several policy revisions and approved the
transfers of funds recommended by the administration. Details as to the
policies and transfers are included in [the minutes of the BOE located in the Board of Education section of our website](https://www.eastfordct.org/board/agendas-and-minutes/).

In addition to their work as a full BOE, our members serve on several
subcommittees. In November the Policy Committee resumed the process of
reviewing new legislation to make informed policy changes, and the
Transportation Committee met to discuss and eventually act upon a new
busing contract. Our current transportation contract with EASTCONN ends
this school year. In December, our Facilities Committee will begin
reviewing and updating the long-term facilities plan as well as
responding to some of the challenges an aging and much-used building
presents. The Committee will also review the new annual Facility
Checklists that the state requires to be completed and posted on the
website.

January marks the beginning of a new budget season. At their November
meeting, the BOE approved the dates for their budget meetings. At the
Dec. 12 BOE meeting, the BOE invites all community members to provide
suggestions and/or comments regarding the 2025-26 school operating
budget. Budget workshops will be held at 6 p.m. on Jan. 21 and Jan. 30.
Although not open for comments, community members are invited to attend
these meetings. If needed, the BOE will hold another budget workshop on
Feb. 13 at 5:30 p.m., prior to the BOE regularly scheduled meeting at 6
p.m., during which the BOE may approve their 2025-26 operating budget
for submission to the town.

As we are preparing to say goodbye to 2024, I wish you all the best for
a rewarding and safe 2025. As always, you are invited to contact me at
[dleake@eastfordct.org](mailto:dleake@eastfordct.org) to ask a question, share a concern or to schedule
an appointment. I hope to see you at the December BOE meeting to share
your thoughts regarding the 2025-26 school budget.
